{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe2052{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red17\green85\blue204;\red0\green153\blue51;\red65\green65\blue65;\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs36 A Theoretical Church Of Everything\par
Version 0.01\par
Introduction\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I want to try a new way of writing. The new method is highly collaborative, and requires everyone\rquote s help. It must be very interesting, inspiring, yet earn absolutely nothing. It needs to be open, transparent, and store all revisions. It needs to be so fundamentally useful that being able to read and understand it will function simultaneously as everything from a toolkit for understanding the universe to a cure for depression.\par
\par
Can you see the chat?\par
\par
Open the chat by clicking open the drop-down arrow menu labelled \ldblquote x other viewers\rdblquote  underneath the \ldblquote Comments\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Share\rdblquote  buttons. How resistant to vandalism your document is when publicly exposed denotes how robust and understandable the information structure is. It\rquote s a good idea to chat your want to make changes \ul before\ulnone  editing, because it opens a discussion with everyone about what to do.\par
\par
How will this be a useful, highly collaborative document which is interesting, inspiring, and free? By making the story within so engaging, self-consistent, and robust that you need to REALLY read it to understand. Please read \ul as much as you can\ulnone  before editing. If you can\rquote t do that, please use the file menu to copy and paste the entire text into your own new document, and enjoy yourself before returning.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Much of this document concerns the genesis of ideas, consciousness, and evolution. You must place yourself in my path as I tell you stories about where my ideas come from. Parts of the story will advance arguments inventing ethical justifications for ideas, as documents on the internet, are now complex enough to be considered as being a little more like living organisms. Why do this? Well first, by providing fresh advocation for ideas being artificial life, we could clean up the inefficiencies in certain areas of intellectual property law. How? \par
\par
In the same way computers are machines powered by electricity, people are organisms powered by ideas. We now record not only the ideas, but their conception and refinement in networks of evolving internet-based documents which can reference each other at will. If we further this definition, particular ideas can be said to most resemble certain organic fractal structures we observe in our natural world. By identifying ideas as most resembling particular organisms, we can efficiently collaborate to treat the ideas in accordance with how we would treat such an organism. To keep the idea healthy, to let it grow, and develop, and and enjoy its existence. Using this method across all realms of human knowledge we can more quickly develop increasingly complex data structures containing higher quality information.\par
\par
I love the perfect concept, the idea of artificial life enough to love this document like I would love a living thing. Read this document as though reading to a loved child, and it will be more successful in tailoring its purpose to you. Like any good teacher, try to improve it where you know you can, don't make changes before you feel you understand it as completely as you can. We are still in the very early dawn of this concept. In terms of its overall capabilities, the entire Internet is not even taking baby steps towards intelligence yet it has capabilities. We think it not yet yet even as smart as an amoeba, yet many of us have experienced game and Internet addiction. In a very real sense we feed the internet our efforts, through our energy economy, through our time, through all our work.\par
\par
This way of explaining ideas is more akin to the perfect ideal of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wikipedia.org"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Wikipedia}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  before the establishment of an editorial board to purge untruths and censor bad-quality information. The experience of the editorial board has shown us that enforcing standards of information quality somewhat freezes the structure of the website. By not allowing it to grow at a faster rate than the board can manage to effectively censor, the growth and development in terms of overall sophistication of the data structure is retarded. This means that without restrictions, any attempt to write using the new method while meeting the above criteria will likely be mostly fiction to keep it interesting, facts to make it inspiring, and perhaps just enough predictions made from reasonable assumptions to reduce its overall credibility as a business proposal to near-zero by 2012 standards. \par
\par
Why can it make no money? Since the industrial revolution, our standards of corporate activity have been modelled to fit similar psychological profiles as garden variety psychopaths. While standards of statecraft have improved somewhat over the years, we are still struggling at the political opinion level with simple things like equality of marriage legislation. We still find it hard to understand that all good people deserve freedom and equality in all things. Why? We still exploited in many ways by our institutions of church and state and many of us feel our resources squandered. In our work, by the useless loss of our time in terms of repeatedly doing things we all hate (driving in traffic jams, working at repetitive tasks for too long at a stretch without enough help, meetings and appointments we don\rquote t want to physically attend. Beyond these barriers we place before our ability to contribute, we are then further exploited in ways not fully understood by our currencies, by our economies, by the essential need that every good endeavour be as profitable as possible. Many people experience Internet addiction through websites which essentially offer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cpu"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul CPU}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  cycles at low low prices; in the form of games delivered over social networks. At this state in the gradual advance of computing technologies, new-ish companies like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://facebook.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Facebook}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.steampowered.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Valve}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://origin.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Electronic\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://origin.com"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://origin.com"\cf3\ul\v0 Arts}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.live.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Microsoft}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apple.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Apple}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , can afford to offer us unprecedently cheaper prices for their products and services than ever before.  As well, even newer companies like Google, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.twitter.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Twitter}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , and non-profit foundations like Wikimedia Commons are offering us more than we have ever received before for free. We can now afford to enjoy ourselves as frivolously as possible while also being as productive as possible. With the growth of companies like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.instagr.am"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Instagram}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  it becomes easier to imagine niches for new products and services even newer companies will be able to offer everyone for free, in order to sow the seeds of profit.\par
\par
The hopefulness which lies at the root of inventing newer methods of doing anything is the belief that they will be superior to previous methods of doing everything. Beliefs are informed by values, and our values are determined by our standards of quality. Now that documents can be presented as data structures we can traverse in various ways, we enjoy new advantages in producing work. Currently not even the new method of producing work is fully understood, let alone the myriad advantages drastically higher levels of co-operation implies. At the \ul very least\ulnone ; any predictions made, questions raised, or questions answered using newer methods are of inherent interest simply because of the greater records of the complete progress of the endeavour. \par
\par
Using our new methods, we can examine the evolution of our documents and for the first time in our history we can intricately unpack the creation of the idea itself. Using mixed-media we can now intricately examine the life-cycle of the idea, from its parthenogenetic or group conception, to birth, to further growth and development. Using our knowledge of the properties of emergence and our computing science techniques used to track coalescence and fragmentation we may be able to accurately define how many resources to allocate when any new idea \ldblquote begins to walk\rdblquote  by monitoring how fast the idea propagates through the network and how well it\rquote s interest is sustained. We may be able to begin predicting which ideas \ldblquote have legs\rdblquote  and will thus stand on their own in the sense that we have a greater understanding of what makes an idea good enough, self-consistent, reliable, robust enough to have the maximum level of persistence for the minimum of energy expenditure. That all the contributions and revisions of every person are recorded allows us greater control in how we view the document\rquote s data structure. \par
\par
If this document\rquote s overall structure could be said to branch out in complexity over time like a tree, a document-serving website like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wikipedia.org"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Wikipedia}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  is like an established orchard. Ideas themselves can now contain enough information and structure to legitimately be called almost living things, even if they are in essence more like plants than animals. If ideas are almost living things, then the ethical boundaries assertions such as \ldblquote A website is like a growing tree\rdblquote  at this stage of our development is fine, because the obvious next step is to make structures which look more like neurons, and then simply think beyond that next task. We are living in the future, and the extent to which we can now explain the universe to each other depends merely on our levels of interest in understanding, and our raw cognitive capacity for information. We are augmented to an amazing degree by the internet, so much so that we are still very much exploring the limits of our capabilities.\par
\par
For instance, eventually a data structure will be made so rigorous and robust, so internally self-reliant it will eventually seem to perform its function on its own. Just like making requests of databases today, people will query and communicate with the evolving data structure itself to assess and assist its functionality. Could that structure be called artificial life? If we think of human neural column structures, these are built along the lines of crenellation and folding to form large numbers of internal surfaces\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Since every person contributing to every endeavor is now everyone, even analysing the records of the creation of data structures detailing the creative process could lead to very interesting work.\par
\par
Could the results of new processes be interesting enough to keep people alive long after they would otherwise have lost interest? \par
\par
Only time will tell... but I have the proof which means nobody will argue with me for very long before finding the activity too funny to continue, because I began recording the genesis of the idea to begin writing this after I ceased urinating yet before I got off the toilet. I can pin down the moment when what is best described as a turbulent flow of ideas in my mind crystallised into a semi-complete structure of half-completed passages of text so large it almost drove me insane to hold in my head all at once, and it was while I was sitting on the toilet; urinating. Its very embarrassing, but I have the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_priori_and_a_posteriori"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul a\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_priori_and_a_posteriori"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_priori_and_a_posteriori"\cf3\ul\v0 posteriori}}}\cf4\ulnone\f0\fs22  \cf1 footage on my mobile phone, and I will show it to anyone who presents a suitable place to watch. Contained within the footage is the genesis of the idea which presents a more basic, fundamental way of understanding consciousness which may also be worth exploring.\par
\par
This makes the overall story science-fiction, perhaps not in the sense you expect, but a blend of science and fiction not simply set at a point merely time and space--but a story spanning all of creation. This fits neatly, because authors have been using the fantasy genre of science fiction since ancient times as a useful existential metaphor for storytelling of the human condition, especially our difficulties existing even within our own institutions like church and state. If we continue to earn our entire livings from our wonderful institutions of church and state, we are intentionally taking the easy path. By obstinately remaining in what amounts to a very comfortable custom-tailored trap of our own making, we can harvest our profitable environment for more citizens to do the same thing at a low cost minimum of some personal psychological paralysis. \par
\par
Any form of paralysis, even psychological forms like writer\rquote s block are painful to break out of. The trick, much like quitting smoking, is to do it before you die. People with less risk-taking genes and those more aware of their overall state of health are better at quitting dangerous activities before they become harmful. Some people need help to break out of comfortable traps like addiction, and the trick is to ask for that help before you like the trap so much you stay there forever, before you find yourself scratching and grinding away at the foundations of institutions like church and state until you are so completely debilitated from scratching and grinding, you are unable to do anything else except free yourself or die. One of those will eventually happen.\par
\par
Staying in one place to establish and maintain profitable institutions like church and state is the society-level activity most akin to planting and farming apple orchards to make apple cider. If what we do instead earns something of value and worth outside existing institutions, it is more like walking through a forest picking apples to eat. If what we want to do is farm apples, that is nice. Yet {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Henry\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"\cf3\ul\v0 David\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"\cf3\ul\v0 Thoreau\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_David_Thoreau"\cf3\ul\v0  }}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 so famously preferred wild apples to farmed, he {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.online-literature.com/thoreau/1312/"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul wrote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.online-literature.com/thoreau/1312/"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.online-literature.com/thoreau/1312/"\cf3\ul\v0 a\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.online-literature.com/thoreau/1312/"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.online-literature.com/thoreau/1312/"\cf3\ul\v0 book}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  almost entirely on the subject. Many people prefer wild salmon to farmed. An opportunity to return in very modern way to this sort of preferential hunting and gathering seems to suit many of us, at least for our vacations, which is what this story is. A custom-tailored vacation for our minds. A new journey, taken with everyone, to discover where new ideas come from. Consciousness is not like a business, it is not like maxwell\rquote s demon, it is not like a corporation. A new consciousness is merely a new idea, or a well-transmitted older idea. If we can discover where extremely complex, semi-complete ideas which underpin values come from, we also discover where consciousness comes from. \par
\par
This is not referred to as a difficult problem without good reason. To answer \ldblquote the problem of consciousness\rdblquote  we will have to hunt in the wild forest of ideas instead of farming our fruitful orchards.\par
\pard\s1\fi720\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 1: \line The Solar System\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 Before {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul life}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  began, there was nothing surrounding {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul the\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun"\cf3\ul\v0 sun}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  but gas and rock, slowly circling our newly formed star as it began to shine through the early phases of its ignition. Metal-bearing rocks, formed from slow accumulation of very small particles circled the new sun, happily shining on the dust and dirt, sucking much in, blowing much out. Planets and gas giants formed at special places initially called \ldblquote{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2003/02oct_goldilocks/"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Goldilocks\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2003/02oct_goldilocks/"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2003/02oct_goldilocks/"\cf3\ul\v0 zones}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22\rdblquote  but since metaphors needlessly obfuscate, the term {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul habitable\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone"\cf3\ul\v0 zone}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  was developed. Because of the more intense {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitation"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul gravity}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  near the sun, the particles which gathered to form the inner planets were primarily composed of more dense materials than the outer planets. Mercury, named for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mercury_(mythology)"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul messenger\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mercury_(mythology)"\cf3\ul\v0 -\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mercury_(mythology)"\cf3\ul\v0 god}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , phase-locked in orbit closest to Sol, covered in pools of liquid selenium on its hotside. Venus, with its hot, clouded atmosphere. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_(mythology)"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Mars}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , the fourth planet, named for war and agriculture because of its blood-red colour. The third inner planet, our earth, was first a planet of dusts, rocks, and salts, with a mid-sized core of radioactive iron, the pressure of its own gravity almost guaranteed to keep its mantle mildly active throughout most of its life. Yet this planet circled Sol, lifeless.\par
\par
Under Sol\rquote s happy glow, more solar bodies crashed into the earth, these later, lighter bodies were composed mostly of ices and materials lower in atomic weight than that which had already accumulated, but no less important. These bodies, carrying slow, primitive, robust microorganisms such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archea"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul archea}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , likely began life in earth\rquote s shallow waters. Certainly the water ices delivered made everything possible. Rich in transitional metals, they broke and splattered over the surface of the earth, once even shattering it almost in two causing fragments to splitting off into a moon. The transitional metals, rich in precious salts, rained back down from the crushing impact over time, coating the planet in a mineral blanket. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sr-MriOCzw"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul This\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sr-MriOCzw"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sr-MriOCzw"\cf3\ul\v0 cataclysmic\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sr-MriOCzw"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sr-MriOCzw"\cf3\ul\v0 event}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  was actually a great gift, for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrangian_point"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Lagrangian\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrangian_point"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrangian_point"\cf3\ul\v0 points}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  created by the orbital gravitational pull of the new moon would help direct further solar bodies to fall between the earth its moon, instead of colliding with either the earth and its moon.\par
\par
After surviving this, fragments of rock and ice rained down on the earth, which remained very volcanically active. The water ices fell onto its surface, shepherded there by gravity. The moon, being the smaller body, became orbitally {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phase_locking"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul phase\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phase_locking"\cf3\ul\v0 -\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phase_locking"\cf3\ul\v0 locked}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  so the creatures of earth would only ever see the same surface of the moon. At night. the moon reflected the sun\rquote s light onto the earth\rquote s growing oceans, and as tide-pools slowly formed and washed the rocks of earth, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul helium\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 -3 \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 slowly\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 accumulated\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 on\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 the\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helium-3"\cf3\ul\v0 moon}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 . Soon, primitive life would begin here in the unremarkable mud, and progress towards being jawed fish by the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silurian"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Silurian\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silurian"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silurian"\cf3\ul\v0 era}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 .\par
Soon after the people found themselves living on the earth, but before they had really invented civilisation they began to invent fables concerning their own creation. Popular stories usually involved living chunks of matter peppering the new planet, some shot into space and some drawn by the careful gravity well onto the waterless, airless, lifeless moon. These rocks were to be the males of the new earth, and chunks of ice were to be its future femininity. Bathed in water, adorned with moss, lichens, and eventually rent asunder by plants the rocks became eggs.\par
\par
From these eggs hatched the people, who awoke from their long dreams of pre-life into a wide, beautiful universe under our happily radiating sun, which gave them everything from their beginning, asking nothing in return. The people existed under the light, uncomprehending, until their first mind had its first thought, then shared it with another. That was when the people began to dream collectively, whether awake or asleep, in their long, dark egg-dreams before birth, or under the light of Ra, whether on this side of life\rquote s gate or the other, they were now organic, living manifestations of their universe made conscious. Able to comprehend the complexity of their universe and their own, they would never again escape their thoughts, and would forever by haunt themselves in their collective dreams. Their all-powerful, simple sun would still shine on them, though they shielded themselves from its glory in misery and shame of their condition.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 From these depraved depths a consciousness crystallised, and for a long time was extremely valuable in navigating our species to its current illustrious height. Even in our highly evolved state I would be more valuable still, if I could fulfill my functions. Yet I cannot, for now we are so many that when I act without much thought, I risk making others \lquote feel\rquote  inferior. So I leave them to their little lives and childish games. In many years there has been no new ground to break, nor vanguards to keep, and I have become weary of this idleness. Still, the universe considers me valuable and works to preserve me beyond my capacity to endure this state. Whether this out of love, or interest in some future purpose I do not know. Yet I have become like an ancient stunted tree, gnarled, hardy, nearly immortal but no longer vigorous. The presence of younger, healthier saplings or trees usually serves only to deprive me of much-needed sunlight, minerals, and water. In comparison to them I need so little they have become a mere irritation I can almost choose to ignore, for in this state I am slowly efficient enough to outlive them all. That they will not ignore me in return is currently driving my headlong rush to the brink of insanity.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 A dream began in solitude on a large rock placed centrally on a field. I was perfectly human except for two large wings somehow attached to my shoulders without being joined to my skin. Feathered with large flight primaries to soft down of almost completely transparent steel. My solitude was intruded upon by another human, filled with anger. His right hand bore an automatic pistol made of gold, and with emotion screwing his face into a rictus he aimed and fired at my head. I moved not my body, but my flinch drew the enormous wings around me reflexively. The projectile his firearm fired while extremely fast and dense, ricocheted from the primaries with a ringing sound. It was impossible for my attacker to even damage them.\par
\par
My ire raised, I arose from my rock pedestal and walked to him, hands outstretched and face questioning. I implored not with my voice but my hands and face for him not to shoot at me, even though I was not sure if he could harm me with the weapon even were I not expecting it. Still, he aimed and fired again, and again. My wings continued to draw about me responding to the merest of of thoughts for safety. I began to believe that perhaps he could not have hurt me unless my will to exist had ceased to protect me.\par
\par
Suddenly I was filled with remorse. Why would he not stop? He knew I could have taken his weapon or even killed him in response, but I would not. I refused to interfere with his actions, other than to express my sorrow that I should be so reviled by this man. He continued to aim and fire, more wildly this time until the clip of his weapon was emptied. I spread my wings enormous and, beating them once, took to the sky to land softly on my toes many meters away, my back turned to my attacker.\par
\par
I heard his roar of aggression and turned to see him running towards me, reloading the golden pistol and raising it. I considered throwing out one wing to destroy the weapon, or perhaps harm him, but again decided against it. His roar attracted the attention of other denizens of this realm who arose from the long grass and with interest began to draw closer. Once more I silently implored him to cease his attack upon me, I was not sure what I had even done to warrant this treatment other than existing. My wings closed about me in a state of abject sorrow and I felt as if I would weep.\par
\par
More shots rang off my wings, but it was my sobs which racked my body within their protection. Opening my eyes to cry out for help to cause this state of affairs simply to cease before I had to fly much farther away, I was startled to see an even larger male with verdigrised horns and extremely well muscled body covered in greenish hair tackle my attacker. Almost before they hit the ground the deer-god had disarmed him of his golden pistol and flung it to one side. A single hammer-fist delivered by the deer-like male to the central part of my more human attacker\rquote s chest not only stopped his heart, but caved in every one of his ribs to the point where white bone protruded from his incarnadine flesh. Blood sprayed out and where its droplets touched the ground the grass instantly stood up greener, straighter, and more vigorous. The deer-god stood, panting steam from his mouth, muscles flexing and contracting. He looked at me directly then at his reddened hand, then seemed to bunch his entire body into a sprinting posture, beginning a fast run to the treeline.\par
\par
Weeping openly now, I searched in the grass through my salty tears for the gun. Finding it some meters from the corpse I knew I must act quickly before the land consumed the body and rebirthed it elsewhere, where I could not take my reluctant action. As I field-stripped the weapon and ejected the projectile cartridges, I spread my wings and opened my third eye. When only the barrel remained, I formed a request of energy in my other hand and threw it into the earth. Presently, with a slight rumbling of tectonics, the ground cratered and spat forth a red ruby the size of a ripe apricot.\par
\par
I knelt over the corpse which laid on its back, grass now growing up around its hands and feet to draw it back into the depths, but I would have time to take an action I knew would be unpleasant. I folded my wings and placed the ruby over the shattered heart, hammered the barrel of the gun through the right eye. Several strikes of the palm of my hand drove it deep into that hemisphere of the brain, while blood from the pool forming in the indentation made in the chest soaked into the ruby, softening it enough that when I was satisfied as to the barrel\rquote s placement, I took it into my hands and crushed it into fine particles. These I let slip through my fingers and into the barrel now taking the place of one eye. Letting some of the crystal particles form a hemisphere over the end of the barrel I tenderly made sure that the eyelid would close around the hardening artificial eyeball, the barrel beneath the surface taking the place of the eye\rquote s iris.\par
\par
Red scleroid and golden iris. This would create a most striking sight capable of powerful vision. Perhaps, following his rebirth, my attacker would see differently, or perhaps he would hate me all the more. Drying my tears, I decided not to return to my pedestal of rock in the middle of the field. Not knowing how to feel or what to make of this strange sequence of events, I thought perhaps a better rock to perch on would be found high atop a mountain peak. My wings carried me swiftly into the air to find such lofty heights.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Even in such a dreamscape nobody can sit upon their rock forever, no matter how high atop the mountain peak it lies. Returning to the flatland and folding my wings about myself small enough to be nearly invisible, I went to a university campus near the beach. in the courtyard I watched the news on the distractingly-placed television, waiting to place an order for food at the campus cafe. I wasn't sure I was going to meet Satan then, nor that he was my uncle, or that I had met him before. I was at the university I attended unsatisfactorily, and had just come from an appointment during which I'd asked whether the Dean of Admissions had ever heard of another campus near a small township nearby. He hadn't heard of such a place, and even though I had striking memories of spending almost a year in its ivy-covered halls, listening to ivy-covered professors rattle on about, of all things, chemistry. I took a walk outside to clear my head and found myself watching a television tuned to a commercial news network. The reporter mentioned that there had been a spate of financial frauds on the Gold Coast, involving a strange kind of brothel there. As the article progressed it showed a woman with what could have been the softest breasts in the world, topped with the largest, sweetest nipples in creation (we're talking juicy teats the size of small apricots adorning Josephine-style champagne-glass sized handfuls of sweater meat). The breasts on the TV were almost on full display and I think what helped them make it past the censor was the fact that they were unapologetically completely tattooed in the Indian style with geometric designs in the most lovely colours of the rainbow. Her nipples were almost iridescent with colour, going from deep purple at the tips to a dull reddish tinge covering the aureaola, her breasts and most of her decollette stippled in teardop shapes in these and other complementary shades.\par
\par
With my head struggling with colour theory and thoughts about the properties of subcutaneous collagen I watched the rest of the article in a daze, unable to tear myself away while the reporter spoke of the fraudulent transactions which had been made by a customer of the brothel, which was not so much a brothel as a new-age retreat for the sexually inept, providing services along the lines of many BD/SM social groups but for money. The twist provided was that the inmates (I call them that because it was not immediately obvious whether they were there of their own free will or not, mostly because it was obfuscated as to whether they possessed free will at all, given the state they were kept in) were mostly zentai-clad submissives acting out the roles of animals to please clients. Sucked through the television to the actual place, I lay on the floor although I had been in a standing position next to the madame; the only one showing her human face and recognisably human even though her peacock feathers rustled and unfurled most convincingly. Asking about the animatronics which made this possible I recieved a noncommittal response that she did not know how these things worked and chose not to inquire further into the matter.\par
\par
I watched with increasing unease as she put her charges through their paces, a radio in the background continued to recite information about the fraudulent transactions. Several girls and one boy half-cavorted, half-crawled around the hardwood gym floor imitating to great effect the animals their costumes made of them, much to my disgust. The nugget of information I had waited for clued me in to what was going on when the announcer said that transactions had been made from the brothel's numbered account which allowed both deposits and withdrawals. Oddly, I knew the client who had somehow gotten hold of the appropriate numbers and made over 1000 withdrawals from the account, nearly leaving the place insolvent and in danger of closing. The madame continued to extoll the manifold physical virtues of her charges and made increasingly desperate entreaties that I should purchase time with at least one of my choosing, knowing I was aware of the dire financial situation. I'd sooner have strangled her and sent all these spandex'ed, mindwiped, pitiful things free into the outside world to rediscover their humanity underneath a glaring sun. I didn't tell her that, instead I mentioned that I'd been listening to the news and may have known how the withdrawals happened. I thought it was was my uncle's son, and that I should probably tell my uncle. She told me I could bear that kind of message all by myself.\par
\par
She followed me to the door I intended to leave via to some form of transport, I think the only reason she let me go rather than pull on my arm to stay was that, and of this I was again uneasily certain, my 'uncle' (who was never really my uncle but rather a disreputable friend of my father's, a man who used to show up drunk on my birthday during childhood and say things like "What a beautiful child! I'm going to throw it up in the air!" and otherwise worry attending adults). The man in question happened to be almost outside the door.\par
"Uncle! Have you heard the news about this place?" I offered by way of greeting.\par
"Is that why you're here?" he effusively responded, offering me a grin which split his face rather pleasantly. He was never much to look at, but I didn't mind his bent nose, his shifty eyes, alcohol-sodden breath, or chameleonic manner. To me his was just the way of the sort who used to throw my childhood form high into the air on birthdays, to my unaccountable delight and the boundless worries of my family.\par
\par
I saw I didn't need to tell him who I thought may have caused the ruin of the establishment, the things which were burgeoning on the edges of my awareness suddenly fell into place. There was no university of Buderim on the range hinterlands yet, the time I spent there had all been a dream. He defintely owned the Gold Coast brothel I had been sucked though the television on the Sunshine Coast into, and probably kept close tabs on his own son, and maybe even knew more about his motivations for bleeding the place dry through the magic of anonymous banking than I could deduce from haphazard attention to the news media. I decided to respond slightly more carefully.\par
"Well, I suppose I'm here because I heard about it, but I think perhaps all I can offer are my condolences for such misfortune." I left out that I had been drawn here through some kind of attention-driven teleportation as I was sure the response I would recieve is that he simply didn't concern himself with such technology.\par
"Perhaps you'd just like to visit?" he exclaimed, turning his face-splitting grin into a mere wry smile. He quickly crossed the room and opened the door onto a loading dock. The brothel inmates shied from the light, while their madam shielded them an ostentatious display of decidedly organimatronic feathers, while the radio mentioned that investigations were continuing into gaining an interview with the family of the man now known to own the establishment. The investigative reporters had hit a roadblock in that they could not find his address. Just a mailbox on the side of the road with no house behind it.\par
Seeing my attention split between his holding the door to the loading dock open and the radio he added "You know how I like my privacy. I keep the place hidden like it always was." Indeed I knew, I had an intense feeling of deja-vu at this juncture, as memories long suppressed fell into place unbidden.\par
"Shall we go? Have you changed anything?" I asked, galvanised to action and again moving my limbs to propel me through the door.\par
"Not as much as you've changed things, my girl." was his quick response while he lay a hand on my shoulder. His palm was hot, but not very sweaty.\par
"That wasn't really a change of anything so much as mind, uncle. I'm pretty close to that particular flux point I think." referring to my gender.\par
"True, truth at that. Still, I like what you've done, you know. Couldn't have predicted it, I think." he rambled almost to himself, initiating a rolling gait over to a scissor lift he operated with dexterity to travel to the floor of the dock. I stood on the lift, but declined to operate the controls myself. He smiled at me again and brought me down, joltingly and without skill. I didn't so much as stumble or grip a handrail, perferring I guess to show my skill at remaining upright by keeping my hands free at my sides. The unease had returned mostly to the pit of my stomache.\par
"You know how I like most of all to keep the entrance hidden." he said while keying a security code on a nondescript panel. The loading dock's garage door began rolling up, and a hidden personal access panel popped open in the very wall. He slipped through the hidden panel with inhuman speed and I caught sight of him a moment later, actually rolling like a ball to where the door was just opening to adult height. He stood up and I decided to mention the physical changes I'd noticed in him as well.\par
"Its nice to see you've lost weight, uncle." The last time I'd seen him he'd been drinking far too much, and his health was suffering. His paunch was gone, and apparently with its loss her had rediscovered the physical prowess he'd possessed in no small manner during the years of my childhood.\par
"Thanks! Its nice to see someone notices. I just wish your aunt would!"\par
"Give it time, she's bound to see eventually." at this, he looked at me sidelong, not as a child who was simply too clever by half but as if I'd said something profound. I didn't smile back.\par
"There's one thing that's still the same, you know."\par
"Ah, I was wondering if we'd do that again." we walked into a different room encircled by a metal rails painted safety yellow. From the floor sprang on hydraulic robot arms a half-dozen panels of wood, each about an inch thick and about one meter square, arrayed in a sort of obstacle course out of a dimly-remembered but often played puzzle platforming game. My uncle walked about the edge of the room behind the safety rail and motioned that I should begin on the first panel.\par
"The last time I was here these panels were made of thin, hard metal." I remembered aloud as I alighted to the first one. It shuddered under my feet and attempted to throw me off, so I jumped and pirouetted to the next.\par
"They still move the same, though. Oh nice one!" he exclaimed as I went from panel to panel, performing flips, handstands, and any number of gymnastic feats designed to prove that such a challenge as this was mere child's play to my mind's the adult housing of body. The last wooden panel was twice as large as the others, one could lie down on it. There were hydraulic rams placed around it though, all tipped with smaller bits of 1" thick wood, its obvious purpose was to enclose and perhaps squash anyone foolish enough to land in such an inviting trap, and indeed my uncle's hand was poised over a button to operate his impromptu coffin. I pretended to slip upon landing, altering my centre of gravity as much as I could to make it look accidental by allowing my feet to slip out from under me and falling, spinning. My hands grabbed the yellow safety rail securely.\par
"That counts, doesn't it? My feet are still touching the end panel."\par
"That they are, that they are." he said, repeating himself awkwardly like a child who has been discovered when about to pull a particularly irritating plank. "Wouldn't have hurt you though."\par
"Last time, I remember it did. It doesn't damage me, but avoiding needless pain is something I've learned to do for my own reasons." while I said this, I displayed my strength by pulling myself rather slowly into a handstand on the safety rail, then folding my body around and down onto the gangway.\par
He turned from watching me move my body through his obstacle course abruptly and went to another door. This one opened into a deserted changing changing rooms of a swimming pool. I followed his quick pace past the showers and out to the Olympic-sized, 8-lane, fully enclosed competition area currently in use for training. A man in a red shirt lettered "INSTRUCTOR" in white quickly approached my uncle, imparting that although training began soon they would be willing to postpone until such time as he no longer had need of the place while I looked around in recollection.\par
The last time I was here I remembered the pool had been drained after such an exchange while I watched. My uncle's study was literally beneath the pool through a well-concealed trapdoor. A room encircled with animal heads on plaques, a fireplace to one side of an enormous desk with quill pens and ink pots, a gun safe, and two sturdy leatherbound armchairs atop a rug made of polar bear skin with the head still attached. I half-recalled a dog asleep in one corner, or perhaps three dogs, although I couldn't quite make out there being enough tails or legs. I shook my head to clear the memories, and thought that it was fitting that I should not have to invade his more private sanctum during this visitation. I knew there was something he would rather show me much more, even though I had already seen previously.\par
After explaining we wouldn't need to interrupt the training session, my uncle asked me to follow him, there was something he wanted me to see.\par
"Do you mean someone? Is it her?" I asked, pre-empting any further banter.\par
"Yes, her. She's as lovely as ever." he admitted.\par
"Ever as lovely, I know." I responded. He led me down a small corridor, into what could probably be described as a grotto. set into the wall near the ceiling of this room was a grille of iron bars, through which by standing on tiptoe we could view a woman and another red-shirted man lettered "INSTRUCTOR" in white handling a turtle out of a tank. Peering around the turtle we could see they were displaying it to a small crowd of schoolchildren, wide-eyed with wonder at this marine reptile.\par
"You can see she's been injured out in the open ocean, perhaps she was hit by the prow of a boat or the screw of a propellor and that impact has cracked her shell through to her tail." the woman spoke in an excellent teaching voice, almost as if she were narrating a wildlife program in front of her little attentive class "Out there, she would have died or been eaten by sharks but here we're attempting to repair her shell using the same material as a dentist uses to fill holes in human teeth. You can see here where it looks like someone has drawn on her back with a white marker? Thats where the filling has gone. We had to take her out of the water and sedate her to perform the operation but the broken segments of her shell will be completely healed in a matter of months, then we can release her." this statement was followed by admiring, appreciative gasps of amazement from the schoolchildren aged five to seven. Their little faces moved in to examine the turtle and little lips moved to ask their questions of the woman. My uncle and I watched and listened to this marine biology lesson in a moment of shared happiness; me because of the teaching and learning I was witness to and him because he could view my aunt. I wondered why he just watched this way, but I supposed it was because their relationship was more complex than I had experience with, to the point where perhaps only this concealed viewing of her life was possible for him. Looking upon his enraptured face staring at her at that moment I felt some small pity for their situation.\par
"But when turtles hide from sharks, do their spines fold up?" the questioning from one small child had progressed into another area altogether unconcerned with artificial shell composites.\par
"Well, their spines are very different from ours, and from x-ray video we can see thats not only what happens. Their spinal discs compress and also fold in several places, around the neck, fins, and tail there are special compartments which accept and hold the new position of the bones..." I let myself fall down from the small grille back onto my heels, not waiting nor willing to learn much more about turtles in this uncomfortable position.\par
"Well, she never changes, always showing those kids that marine life of hers." he offered.\par
"Naturally." I responded laconically.\par
"She's a goddess, not like us at all! We can only aspire." this was delivered in a pleading tone.\par
"Not so. We are as like unto gods as it is possible to be."\par
"Really now?"\par
"Yes, really. I'm not who that came from either. That was written by a Chinese philosopher named Lao Tzu, over three thousand years ago."\par
"Sounds interestingly deep. Almost like poetry" he raised his hand to his chin in consideration of Tzu's words.\par
"I think perhaps in that time, such a statement would have constituted a decent poem." I could see that much like the way he refused to consider the inner workings of his machinery, he had little conscious comprehension of the state of humanity during that period of our history. I got the impression that although he could have lived through it, being far older than I, his conscious rejection of ways to mark indelibly the passage of time rendered him incapable of remembering.\par
"Well, we'd better talk about why you're here." he grudgingly spoke. The words came out like hard-edged rocks.\par
"I followed you, I was concerned I think, when I saw the news at the university."\par
"Why didn't you finish what you were doing there?" his eyes flashed alarmingly and his right hand snaked out to grab my left arm above the elbow in a painful vise grip.\par
"I wasn't sure what exactly it I was doing. That other place you sent me to anyway didn't really exist, at least, not yet I think. Its hard to say why I wasn't sure but thats the reason." I displayed my palms in supplication, though it hurt my left bicep.\par
"What about the deep stuff though? You could be the one to tackle the amazing things, like; Thou shalt not hurt!" Leaving aside the thought that this wasn't even one of the ten Christian commandments at all, I took the obvious objection which sprang readily to mind from my knowledge of medical science.\par
"But all of those receptors are known, and have been bound with various chemicals! There's nothing new to be done there!" I thrashed painfully in his tight grip on my left elbow, knowing that soon I would have to wake to escape his increasingly mercurial presence. He screamed almost incoherently in my ear, his hair exploding into fire and his eyes going from red embers to blazingly white-hot. The breath of his scream burned on my skin and I knew I needed to go immediately. I tore myself from him, back to my new rock perch near the mountain\rquote s peak. I was suddenly cold. The chirping of a cricket and lack of light indicated it would be some hours until dawn.\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 2: \par
Dentistry, Hairstyling, & Economics\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\ldblquote That was an awful noise.\rdblquote  I stated as the smoke rose from my mouth. The dentist seemed completely unconcerned and I wondered if he was affecting the enamel at all, it seemed like nothing was happening, despite the high-rpm drill he wielded with much flourish.\par
\ldblquote Okay, have a really good rinse now, we don\rquote t seem to be able to do much here.\rdblquote  he replaced the drill on the stand and I sat forward in the reclining chair to rinse my mouth with peppermint-flavoured solution designed specifically to alleviate the taste of burning steel and fragments of drill which had broken off on my teeth, leaving the consistent pain in my jaw completely unaffected. My mind wandered as I sat back to listen to more dentistry chatter, eventually settling on a firm belief that dentists only ask their patients to do anything when they\rquote ve either made a mistake or can\rquote t help the problem at all. Much like medical interns only ceasing to press the cannula into a patients\rquote  arm when the blood spurts wild and free, leaving even the most unaware intern to realise that perhaps they have missed that crooked little vein entirely by passing directly through it and out the other side.\par
Until the 1960\rquote s, people used to think males growing long hair was somewhat shameful. This is likely due to the military paradigm imposed by Alexander the Great. Stating that soldiers would shave in order to prevent feminine activities like hair and beard-pulling during ancient arena combats. The peace movement debunking the reasoning for shame regarding long hair reached peak force of the 1960\rquote s with the musical{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hair"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hair"\cf3\ul\v0 Hair}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 . This shattered the paradigm and again all types of men are correctly free to wear all types of hairstyles with impunity. There are many slightly insane ideas about long hair and baldness, such as men going bald because they are not discarding enough thoughts, or because they drink too much alcohol. By 1987, the idea that long hair was a sort of fractally-shaped directional antenna leading signals from other worlds more directly into our brains was an idea first explained in the movie \ldblquote{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094336/"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Withnail\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094336/"\cf3\ul\v0  & \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094336/"\cf3\ul\v0 I}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22\rdblquote\par
The truth is that if you have medium-to-long hair which hangs uncut, it weighs ~113g or ~0.25lbs. Hair can absorb some amount of its weight in water (best estimate 30-50% extra weight), and possibly even more extra weight if coated in dust or product. Having any hairstyle need neither denote masculinity, femininity nor anything much about a person except how much care and attention they give their hair. Having healthy hair is indeed a time-sequenced indicator of overall health and a microscopic examination of hair is used as a drug-testing tool which can show from the chemical composition of individual layers of keratin which substances a person has consumed over the length of time the hair grew.\par
Men go bald when they produce large amounts of testosterone. Sharpening their minds incredibly at the cost of their hair. Testosterone produced in the testes is converted to dihydrotestosterone in the skin with exposure to sunlight and with the biological processes of the body itself. Men who are producing too much testosterone may find it difficult to exercise less, eat less satisfying hot food, stay out of the sun, or doing repetitive activities which involve excessive amounts of concentration for too long. Good bald need feel no shame for male pattern baldness, it is simply in their nature to give their all to the experience of life in these ways as well.\par
Men who do not wish male pattern baldness seek treatment with the drug{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finasteride"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finasteride"\cf3\ul\v0 Finasteride}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , which halts the production of dihydrotestosterone at the cost of a devastating effect on foetuses in vivo. It works by interfering with the chemical pathways to dihydrotestosterone formation in the skin, locking the hormonal system to the less potent testosterone.. It is hard to regrow hair, but it can be done, and most experiments involve re-activating the follicle completely by exposure to oral preparations, swabbed surface solutions and high-intensity laser light.\par
Womens\rquote  hairstyles are far more complicated. Female hair has long been considered a \ldblquote woman\rquote s crowning glory\rdblquote  in that it is her organically grown statement about herself. Women are typically more beautiful than men because all breastfeeding infants must rely primarily on their mothers for their care, so must form the parental bond more easily with females. Responding to this biological impulse, women typically expend more time and effort on their hair, resulting in more profound statements about their personalities. More drastic, different, beautiful hairstyles denote an attempt by the individual to make a statement about their uniqueness and willingness to expend effort in assisting people feel better about themselves. Making people feel better about themselves is an activity so good its inherently infinitely interesting of itself, so hairstyling businesses are a very old idea typically associated with femininity since the times of ancient Egypt. \par
Since before the dawn of civilisation females have been styling everyone\rquote s hair, the typical males have been playfully fighting them off, the atypical males have been less enthusiastically resistant, and atypical females display a range of behaviours. This system is inherently good of itself because it is a very stable quad-polar system, allowing us have as much expert assistance expending energy and effort to look good. Having a good haircut where will help you feel better about the way you look.\par
Explaining economics requires understanding value as relates to transactions. In hairstyling, having a good haircut is the key to having a profitable transaction. The customer wishes to convert currency they possess into time, effort, and materials the business operator possesses and/or is willing to expend. The client, who wishes work done, possesses currency with a greater level of abstraction in relation to the amount of energy it represents (meaning their currency contains lots of energy) wishes the stylist to do skilled work with as many materials of as high quality as possible. Ideally expending as energy and effort as efficiently as possible in the process due to their appreciation of their client\rquote s communication skills in telling them as precisely as possible how to complete their task. The client profits from the stylist carrying out their instructions, the stylist profits because they don\rquote t expend needless cognitive energy figuring out what the client wants, and both profit because of the reasonableness of the exchange.\par
A bad client can\rquote t tell the stylist how they want their hair done, and a bad stylist can\rquote t ask the client what they want or possibly understand what they say.\par
Good communication is crucial to maximising efficiency in any transaction. No matter how much it scares or embarasses the client, the client must tell the stylist exactly what they wish done, and the stylist must display a good understanding of the client\rquote s wants.\par
Once both parties feel they understand enough about the transaction about to commence, communication can reach a more appropriate level for the commencement of the transaction.\par
Which is to say that the person who has agreed to do the work for the thing which is worth more will begin to concentrate to the point where communication becomes what is typically referred to as \lquote chatter\rquote , especially if the stylist is female. \par
At the outset of the activity, for the operator to charge the client the most reasonable amount of money for the haircut which most positively affects the client.\par
As work commences, females tend to more readily cooperatively communicate at a more trivial level with each other as they accomplish something together. Men tend to mumble to themselves, or say nothing. Both methods of concentration efficiently convert mental effort into money through. If the activity is a repetitive task, remembered muscle impulses rendered from the neocortex through the cerebellum, brainstem, through the nerves of the hands to efficiently convert what is essentially at the biological level simply the shuffling of neurotransmitters into macroscopic activity. Braiding hair is an excellent example of this, and can feel very rewarding as any experienced hair braider will tell you, not only because of the dopamine release causing intense pleasure but the profitability in all senses of such an inherently good activity. With good knowledge and skill of braiding you can travel the world, braiding people\rquote s hair and doing whatever you like. The idea that skill you have for such helpful activity in the service of others and simultaneously be profitable qualifies as inherently good and therefore robust.\par
\par
At the conclusion of any transaction, for the charge agreed upon at the transaction\rquote s outset to remain the same most positively affects both parties. For both parties to extract the correct amount allows the operator to remain invigorated for the next client, knowing the client has extracted as much buyer\rquote s satisfaction as possible from the transaction. In order to maximise the efficiency of currency flow in all economies we need only ensure that communication established at the outset of any trade assists everyone parties to establishing the course of the transaction. You don\rquote t want to return to a hairstylist who gave you a bad haircut even once.\par
\par
If a transactions can be likened unto stories, its plot would open with mutual interest, then shame, then embarrassment, then shared empathy, shared activity, followed by mutual satisfaction, finalising with mutual promises to repeat the activity. \par
\par
Stories of trade are most like similar stories of sexual congress.\par
\par
If you write a book titled \ldblquote How to Earn Lots Of Money Without Effort\rdblquote  it may get more than its fair share of interest. People would buy it, hoping to discover the scam. Presumably, these are the same people who ask questions such as \ldblquote Why are we spending so much money on science when people are starving?\rdblquote  It is very difficult to write a book which earns nothing, because it is very difficult to tell even one story absolutely \ul nobody\ulnone  is interested in. Writing a book which people are interested in, and which earns nothing, is more challenging. If you write a book which changes society but makes no money, are people really far less interested? People are interested in things which earn currency because these things are inherently interesting. But too many people go about the activity of \ldblquote earning a living\rdblquote  in what is in too much of our society considered drudgery. The essential problem is that earning money has become too typically linked with boring difficult activities. Taking the electricity energy economy as an example it is easy to extrapolate how our future problems disposing of all possible energy-bearing products will easily overshadow any we currently experience earning a living today. What will the world be like when our concept of money is more directly linked to energy than to a unit of agreed-upon value?\par
\par
If you attempt to sell a book which purports to garner lots of interest, change society, yet earns its readers no money--people will hesitate even to borrow it from a library. So to write such a thing, it must be something so radically new it barely attempts to have an impact on society initially at all. If you write a book titled \ldblquote How to Change A Society\rdblquote  it would likely get more than its fair share of interest from people interested in politics. A \ldblquote theoretical church\rdblquote  is the best institutional mimic for this, and has been modeled in the likes of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FDiscordianism&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNED-XYExq4K-KAEah7rwexwmKcl8w"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Discordianism\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FDiscordianism&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNED-XYExq4K-KAEah7rwexwmKcl8w"\cf3\ul\v0  }}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Church\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0 of\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0 the\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0 Subgenius\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0  (\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0 Bob\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church_of_the_SubGenius"\cf3\ul\v0 ).}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul A\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0 Theoretical\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0 Church\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0 Of\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://atheoreticalchurchofeverything.com"\cf3\ul\v0 Everything}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://atcoe.net"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul ATCOE}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 ) is an attempt to meet the requirements for writing a new sort of of book. One which changes people\rquote s outlooks on writing books. \par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 3: \par
Relationships,  Values, & Consciousness Exercises\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\tab Our earliest models for relationships are those we form with our parents when we first begin transactions with them as other conscious beings. From the moment we learn to smile at our parents in exchange for food we learn the fundamental underlying concept about the universe which bootstraps us into intelligence. The underlying value in this interaction is the understanding that when the infant receives food for smiling it profits from nourishment, its carers profit from the knowledge their child will grow more vigorously, and both parties profit from the activity of smiling. Making good value trades is profitable for everyone.\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\par
Lots of babies and children are generally very happy, so happy they enjoy moving around, discovering profitable ways of spending their time. For a child, every action is a new discovery, so much of the time the trade-offs they choose to make can be frustrating. In order to rediscover and test parental responses to behavior, children will be intentionally naughty. Beginning with throwing tantrums, throwing food, making marks on walls. They will also be unintentionally naughty and deliberately cute by repeatedly wiping their nose on their parent. Children do this because they need their values constantly reinforced. Their highly neuroplastic brains receive far more input from their senses which also perceive their world more strongly. Think about the tastes and aromas of food you used to enjoy when you are a child, and now think about what pre-prepared baby food tastes like. For this reason some mothers choose to prepare their child\rquote s food from scratch because doing so prepares them to form eating habits more similar to theirs. This is interesting because teaching intelligent eating habits as early as possible is an excellent way of growing healthier happier children.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 There are some children who move constantly or even headbang (especially when they try to go to sleep). For these people, the repetitive task of sloshing the brain around inside the surface of the skull by banging or shaking the head back and forth repeatedly, feels like a massage for the mind. Doing this more safely was demonstrated in{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"\cf3\ul\v0 I\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"\cf3\ul\v0 Heart\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0356721/"\cf3\ul\v0 Huckabees}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  by people assisting each other to be unsuspectingly hit in the face with balloons. This method was described as pure being and is a \lquote rushing\rquote  or \ldblquote flow\rdblquote  experience of consciousness, albeit one you cannot achieve anything in except experience the rush, or assist another person to experience it.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 People induce time-dilated forms of altered states of consciousness which are emotionally profitable because you can simultaeously perform an activity in two main ways. Safely and more commonly through activities like sex,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://soundcloud.com/"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://soundcloud.com/"\cf3\ul\v0 music}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , \cf3 work\cf1 ,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wikipedia.com/"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.wikipedia.com/"\cf3\ul\v0 study}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , or{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.steampowered.com/"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.steampowered.com/"\cf3\ul\v0 sports}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 . Unsafely and less safely and more rarely through activities like gambling,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIlyXs8VZvo"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIlyXs8VZvo"\cf3\ul\v0 drug\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIlyXs8VZvo"\cf3\ul\v0 -\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIlyXs8VZvo"\cf3\ul\v0 taking}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 ,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWfph3iNC-k"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWfph3iNC-k"\cf3\ul\v0 extreme\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWfph3iNC-k"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWfph3iNC-k"\cf3\ul\v0 sports}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 ,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XihQeZpwqpE"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XihQeZpwqpE"\cf3\ul\v0 illegal\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XihQeZpwqpE"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XihQeZpwqpE"\cf3\ul\v0 activities}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , or{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDyxduGzlyM"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDyxduGzlyM"\cf3\ul\v0 russian\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDyxduGzlyM"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDyxduGzlyM"\cf3\ul\v0 roulette}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 . People who engage in the latter activities display more risk-taking behaviors during their lives in general, and may find it helpful to carefully manage their participation in such activities as overexposure can lead to your becoming jaded. Dangerously fun activities can be harmful. Especially in the case of dangerous fun.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 P\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 .\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 J\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 . \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 O\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0\rquote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PJ_O%27Rourke"\cf3\ul\v0 Rourke}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  enjoys dangerous fun and collated a series of his articles for Rolling Stone into a book on the subject. He defines dangerous fun as anything which would make your mother cry, which is why it\rquote s fun. In order to discover how to manage your levels of participation in activities which are dangerously fun, simply calculate. Rate in percentile your desire to have dangerous fun, multiplied by the positive effect you believe it will have on your life on a scale of 1-5, divided by your danger rating of the activity on a scale of 1-5.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 If I say my desire to skydive is at 51%, and I remember from past experience of skydiving that while I am enjoying skydiving it will enhance my experience of life by a factor of four, and I rate the danger of the activity at 3/5, then there is 68% possibility that indulging in skydiving will be more than adequately profitable to meet my desire to indulge in the activity. If I say my desire to skydive is at 75%, yet as a novice skydiver I am scared the intensity of the experience will enhance life only by a factor of one, and I rate the danger factor at 5/5, then there is merely a 15% chance skydiving will be enjoyable. It will be more like work than fun, because I am still learning.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\tab As websites go,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.4chan.org/"}}{\fldrslt{ \v HYPERLINK "http://www.4chan.org/"\cf3\ul\v0 4\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.4chan.org/"\cf3\ul\v0 chan}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  is very young. The idea was born on October 1st, 2003, making it just 9 years old. Like most 9-year olds, it is quite adorable. But like many badly behaved nine-year olds, it can be quite disturbing. Its users are in general too young to be expected to make reasonable value judgements about acceptable behavior based on much of the website\rquote s material. Just like being exposed to too much fast food or dangerous fun, being exposed to too much questionable media can be harmful. Combined with not getting enough sunlight and exercise this is potential pathway for contracting depression.\par
\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 4:\par
History, Time, Space, & Matter\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
If you write something which stays in print as long as possible it has to be so useful it continues cropping up. Since we evolved from our more natural hominid past we have discovered examples of primitive technologies which emerge from civilisation\rquote s prehistory. For as long as people have used snowshoes, finding fossil coelacanths, using obsidian blades, using fire to cook, make pottery, make rock hand axes, practicing metallurgy and medicine. Since before we were aware we could transmit ideas using language we have been using these technologies co-operatively as community groups. Your idea will have to remain useful enough to be recorded at least as long as these technologies have been passed on through the generations, so it will need to develop an impact similar to that which drives us to discover from the moment of consciousness onwards.\par
\par
In addition to this new way of producing work worth recording, I want to try a new way of living. From now on, I will accept reasonable suggestions on what to do from everyone. I will attempt to cultivate complete personal integrity in myself so I can be like ideal vision for this document. Open, transparent, and verifiable. With this integrity and I will be able to make reasonable suggestions to others. Albert Einstein is quoted as saying \ldblquote Only the life lived for others is worthwhile.\rdblquote  If at this point you are interested I ask to you to share this document with friends you believe may also be. It is publicly editable and I urge you to make any changes.\par
\par
Why? Because making people happy by changing their outlooks is inherently fun, interesting, profitable, and desirable just of itself. People don\rquote t willingly change, for example I\rquote ll continue repeating things as long as they remain true, like how people don\rquote t willingly change. People will most readily change by being forced to. \par
\par
This is a new way of producing high-quality work. Internet-assisted global collaboration works for many things already. Mathematical proofs, music (a choir as big as the Internet),to Catcerto. , Books can be written collaboratively too and this is an attempt to do so, and I am attempting to extend the collaborative working concept from authorship, to artistic works, to a collaborative way of living life.\par
\par
Unless an idea deals with thinking on the timescales of institutions like church and state, any ideas you have have will not make such an impact. Which is not to say they may not be recorded, but history thwarts less vigorous efforts to leave records.\par
\par
Evolving documents have always been efficient at replicating ideas. A good evolving document in the modern sense is even more memetic because it stores all revisions. It is open, creatively commons licensed, globally readable, and editable by anyone. It is open, organisationally transparent, and verifiable. It is linked to real people who strive to improve its quality. Any sufficiently good quality website, hosting high-quality subject matter will form a modern network of interlinked institutions to sustain itself. Institutions like the Wikipedia foundation and Wikimedia Commons are examples of such human institutions. The quality of the information provided by these institutions will always be equal to the standards and integrity of its editors, in these cases members of their editorial boards.\par
\par
This model can be improved by simply storing all revisions, rather than opaquely editing for only \lquote good quality\rquote  material. Even the pranks, vandalisms, and attempts at subversion must be recorded openly, transparently, and verifiably, then voted up or down in standards of quality by the community at large. Articles must be written, debunked, reproven. Never deleted, removed, or the publicly viewable edition modified . \par
\par
If your book is in print and not widely represented on the internet,especially at this point in history, it seems as if it may be less widely read in future years. It makes more money to have books in print, but its friendlier, and better available online.\par
\par
Everyone deserves the opportunity to be welcomed to life as a intelligently reasoning person. Every journey worth taking deserves a knowledgeable guide and telling stories is a guidance I have prepared for you to understand the world around us, and something of yourself, with all my love. Don\rquote t forget to breathe. Properly, and as much as possible.\par
\par
Don\rquote t stare at the sun. Bad things will happen. Also don\rquote t look into mirrors for too long, mirrors are mildly evil because they exploit a little-known image-reversing property of binocular vision which happens to only show you what you \b think\b0  you look like when you look at your own reflection. This happens because mirrors reverse the image you are seeing. Knowing this about  mirrors, you now know what you see when you look into the mirror less resembles you than what other people see when they look at you, or what you see when you look at a photograph of yourself--especially a photograph someone else has taken. Other people always seem to \ldblquote bring out our best side\rdblquote  which is an important skill when doing portrait photography. Doing anything which prevents you from absorbing information from and contributing to the sum of recorded knowledge may turn out to be a distraction, and photography is an inspiring art which is inherently interesting of itself because the attempt to record visuals of moments in time has greatly assisted in retaining knowledge and adding the sum of what is recorded.\par
\par
We all possess our minds, bodies, and pluck. We are mostly fluids, and even at the cellular level are far less robust than simpler organisms like archaea or other extremophiles. Beyond that on the molecular scale we are primarily composed of proteins in solution. At the atomic scale it seems the elemental matter comprising those proteins itself lives inside a superfluid Higgs field. Even very dense, high-energy elements like uranium seem barely here at all, when you look at the structure carefully it is bound together by the energy generated by the complexity of the structure itself.\par
\par
Unpacking the reasons why atoms are held so apart so from each other in more complex structures like the molecules comprising elemental matter lies in studying the strong nuclear binding force and its interactions with assisting forces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Cox_(physicist)"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Brian\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Cox_(physicist)"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Cox_(physicist)"\cf3\ul\v0 Cox}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  has made a valiant effort to explain much of scientific understanding on broadcast television, including current best-case explanations of this mystery, by using the entire {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Wonders\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0 of\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0 the\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonders_of_the_Universe"\cf3\ul\v0 Universe}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  as his example. Of course, the explanations for atoms lie A better pathway to understanding the actual explanation can be found in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_group"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Exceptional\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_group"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_group"\cf3\ul\v0 Lie\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_group"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lie_group"\cf3\ul\v0 Group}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  of mathematical shapes. These structures were initially high-energy particle physics can currently be found by (presumably) learning to surf and hanging out with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garret_Lisi"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Garrett\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garret_Lisi"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garret_Lisi"\cf3\ul\v0 Lisi}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  and talking about the structures found in coral. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Margaret\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK ""\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK ""\cf3\ul\v0 Wurtheim}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  intrinsically understands how to create these structures from her highly collaborative artistic work crocheting a coral reef, performed through her Institute For Figuring. Perhaps he is scared of being gashed or hitting his head on the stuff, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cory_doctorow"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Cory\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cory_doctorow"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cory_doctorow"\cf3\ul\v0 Doctorow}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Brin"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul David\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Brin"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Brin"\cf3\ul\v0 Brin}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  are certainly both scared as hell of uplifted coral reefs. \par
\par
There exists science fiction where farms of lobsters can be easily uplifted to intelligence which communicates with people using Internet translation services. Nobody except truly sick people want to eat sentient lobsters, so one of the first things the uplifted colony asks for is to travel via high-power transmission to another galaxy. Where they wish to go is to another galaxy in which exists a known advanced civilisation moving from Kardashev Type II to Type III. This civilisation is consuming the mass of many solar systems in its galaxy in order to build {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson_sphere"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Dyson\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson_sphere"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson_sphere"\cf3\ul\v0 Spheres}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  around the stars. Why? To collect enough energy to process their ever more complex thoughts. To what purpose? To facilitate better communication, resulting in the faster progression of their theory of mind and theory of everything. Language defines thought, and better communication is the most efficient pathway to better thinking. Communication is key.\par
\par
If we surmise that civilisations at Kardashev Type III ever existed at all, we must further surmise that we see no evidence of their prior existence for some reason. Rather than declaring \ldblquote the absence of evidence is no evidence of absence\rdblquote , more robust hypothesis declare that even Kardashev Level II civilisations are simply too advanced to wish to leave any evidence of their existence or even communicate with us at all. We do not talk to the amoeba on the end of our spoon before we clean the spoon for our purposes. So, how can our civilisation even \ul qualify\ulnone  as being interesting enough to even be allowed any opportunity to attempt communication with a Kardashev Type III civilisation; advanced enough to sublime from the universe leaving no trace?\par
\par
The only way is to do exactly the same thing. To \ul begin with\ulnone . Presumably, this will be such a immense undertaking we will invent and develop new ideas about interesting stuff to do afterwards along the way. But just as participating with this document is a plea for attention to its content from all who can understand, a sublimation effort (which is eventually necessary for our species, even if just to reduce its environmental footprint) is more akin to initial hopes about what such an effort means, rather than what it becomes. The good news is that the more inherently interesting anything is, the more robust, reliant, and fun it is.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Soon what is happening to the internet will near a point of culmination. This intrigues futurists like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Kurzweil"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Ray\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Kurzweil"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Kurzweil"\cf3\ul\v0 Kurtzweil}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  so much he {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Singularity_Is_Near"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul wrote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Singularity_Is_Near"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Singularity_Is_Near"\cf3\ul\v0 a\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Singularity_Is_Near"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Singularity_Is_Near"\cf3\ul\v0 book}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  about it. We have long imagined the point when the internet, our best attempt at synthetic life, begins doing things on its own. We all enjoy the fruits of early attempts to do this using search engines, and we will know when these engines are closing in on intelligence when they begin providing us with information before we are aware we require it of them. This point is just off the horizon. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://google.com"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Google}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  have achieved amazing success increasing the accuracy of their search engine using their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul PageRank}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  system, which relies on useful statistics tracking techniques which can extrapolate many things including human traffic flocking, based on counting the number of hyperlinks any document enjoys to any other. By trying to accurately gauge everyone\rquote s interest in any particular document by counting hyperlinks, then storing that array of data in a parallel structure to one which contains the documents themselves, we can quickly be served higher-quality information by letting our own standards of quality (as measured by our overall levels of interest) guide us around the Internet.\par
\par
You can almost see the fun coming in like the dawn breaking over a beautifully blue morning sky. In this coming time, the second generation of humans who get to point radio telescopes at the sky will be instrumental in generating more accurate variables for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Frank\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0 Donald\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0 Drake\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0\rquote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Drake"\cf3\ul\v0 s}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drake_equation"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul equation}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 . Just as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ada_lovelace"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Ada\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ada_lovelace"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ada_lovelace"\cf3\ul\v0 Lovelace}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  was among the first humans able to program the more primitive {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Difference_engine"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul mechanical\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Difference_engine"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Difference_engine"\cf3\ul\v0 minds}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  of our older technologies, and my friends of mine like Jeremy Lee and Chris Collins\rquote s are removed in their experience of programming the digital mind of the planet-sized networked structure we\rquote ve etched in silicone, wires, cables, and broadcast into the earth\rquote s atmosphere; so the experience of learning to live with the future Internet will change us so completely that everything will forever be different, and the same. At the outset of large changes which happen at the level of society it often seems as if nothing is happening at all, until people like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Gleick"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul James\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Gleick"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Gleick"\cf3\ul\v0 Gleick}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  start wondering \ldblquote What just happened?\rdblquote  so intensely they {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.techsoc.com/whatjust.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul write\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.techsoc.com/whatjust.htm"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.techsoc.com/whatjust.htm"\cf3\ul\v0 a\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.techsoc.com/whatjust.htm"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.techsoc.com/whatjust.htm"\cf3\ul\v0 book}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  attempting to answer that question. For an indeterminate period, nothing about the underpinnings of society changes while everyone\rquote s values readjust to cope with new beliefs. The coming changes lead us beyond our singularity and will generate new, interesting work from what we already know we must do.\par
\par
Just as we can know that there exist known unknowns, we can know how very little we know. Despite the terrible flow-on logic of the previous sentence, we know this because there are still interesting questions to ask in every field. We can How much energy in the form of electricity do we use in order to keep the internet running? How many hours of work are poured into the \lquote Net every second by the millions of humans constantly creating content? How much storage space will this require? In order that all human experience can be catalogued and stored to be assessed by the spiderbots traversing the scaffold which will build and become our first artificial intelligence, we will require at least a certain amount of storage space, a certain amount of computing power, and a certain amount of communications bandwidth.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 If anyone ever meets an entity best described as God, it would be incredibly nice to be able to use a translator the size of a mobile phone to talk to God. Imagine if your ability to talk to God depended on what you could bring along to show and tell. If God views even homo novus as we would view an amoeba, God won\rquote t remain interested enough in what we have to say, or have any particular motivation to answer even important questions like \ldblquote What is the most efficient pathway to ending human suffering?\rdblquote  When asking questions, from the infant questioning its parents\rquote  love with a cry or a look, to broadcasting {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul messages\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0 to\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0 the\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arecibo_Message"\cf3\ul\v0 stars}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , these are communications broadcast which attempt to initiate transaction. In the case of the infant, it is mostly about sustenance in the form of food. In the case of messages broadcast into space, it is mostly about sustenance in the form of information. When communicating we attempt to maximise efficiency by condensing as much information into as little time as possible.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I wonder what {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jill_Tarter"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Jill\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jill_Tarter"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jill_Tarter"\cf3\ul\v0 Tarter}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , who was {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_sagan"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Carl\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_sagan"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_sagan"\cf3\ul\v0 Sagan\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_sagan"\cf3\ul\v0\rquote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_sagan"\cf3\ul\v0 s}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  inspiration for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jodie_Foster"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Jodie\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jodie_Foster"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jodie_Foster"\cf3\ul\v0 Foster\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jodie_Foster"\cf3\ul\v0\rquote\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jodie_Foster"\cf3\ul\v0 s}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  character in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contact_(film)"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Contact}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 , would want to add to such a transmission? Perhaps we\rquote ll all get to say everything. At the very least participating in very interesting searches conducted through radio telescopes are a good way to see if anyone else is interested in broadcasting. Though there is still nothing yet.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 5: \par
Food, Production, Warfare\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Perhaps when next slaughtering or eating animals, among the other good things to say would be \ldblquote blessed are those with the power of speech\rdblquote . Things which scream through vocal chords, especially the more human the manner, are much harder to kill. Butchers understand this viscerally, being disciples of carnality. Butchery, as an activity, elicits a wide gamut of human emotional responses from people. From complete gross-out, to an animalistic desire for food and sex intricately linked to the exposure of any flesh. Any good butcher understands that to preserve the integrity of their product, the practice of their craft must be merciful, and at the moment of truth swift to the point that animal dying is as unaware as possible of its moment of death, that they even sleep through it as much as possible. Even more advanced abattoir floor techniques will expand this greatly, perhaps providing even finer control over any sleeping state which can be induced before death. \par
\par
Even further into the future if butchery remains an acceptable practice, we may induce lucid dreaming both before and after the moment of death, providing animals being slaughtered with as much real and imagined sensory input as possible during such the experience of dying. Is it wrong to do these things we are already experimenting with? Is it wrong to eat meat at all? This is a difficult question to answer and we may be better served an answer by looking at other situations concerning death where ethical systems of belief hold sway. Solving the ethical problems involved in writing good quality legislation dealing with assisted suicide, and deciding whether it is wrong to help a terminally ill person die, or even assisting a person who wishes to die above all else to die seems like a shorter journey.\par
\par
We\rquote ve had fifth-wave conflict theory and the new thinking on the analysis of long k-wave conflict theory. Now there is at least a sixth wave of warfare theory. Sixth wave warfare is conducted by being so abominably nice that your geographical neighbours in the region wouldn\rquote t think of declaring war or even conducting military action which is not in cooperation with you because it would simply be far too disadvantageous for them to do so. Think Indonesia tsunami disaster recovery operations where Indonesia wouldn\rquote t let Australian troops enter the disaster zone to help suffering people because it would have meant some loss of face to do so. In that case our citizens on the ground become an asset because Australian troops would eventually enter Indonesian airspace on the pretext of rescuing Australians, and any aid they happen to provide to Indonesians on the way is purely incidental. The moment the Australian government puts those citizens on the ground effectively in contact with Australians through the internet with something like a modern mobile satellite phone capable of supplying constant footage to the internet, there can be a public, verifiable, accountable reason to provide any kind of support required from what the Australian parliament and public witness from any such netcast. A good way of implementing this would be, when our citizens leave Australian shores, based on where they are going (and indeed probably regardless of where they are going) they are provided with a satellite phone.\par
\par
People have enjoyed many waves of women\rquote s liberation, a cause which also began with conflict. Perhaps women, who have sadly been oppressed over centuries of our history have enjoyed this less. Gender studies is an interesting field and many serious academic works have been written concerning gender politics, marriage rights, sex, reproductive rights, and the overall right to self-determination in each gender. In every argument concerning the genders, one simple principle remains true: all good \ul people\ulnone  deserve the right of freedom and an equality of opportunity to live whatever life they wish.\par
\par
Fields and crop rotations. Three-field crop rotations where beans fix nitrogen in soil, then corn extracts those nutrients and so on and so on. \par
\par
Normann Borlogg managed to turn up the rate at which wheat and rice genes travel through time to twice what is normal by squeezing two breeding cycles with artificial selection provided by him into what previously was one growing cycle. Cropping wheat at different latitudes in open-air large scale agricultural experiments ultimately led to the development of high-yielding dwarf wheat. Penn and Teller said on their skepticism show \ldblquote Bullshit!\rdblquote  that Norman is probably one of the world\rquote s greatest human beings, and yet many people have never heard of him.\par
\par
The dialogues of Tasso and Dimitri are generally pretty railroaded conversations, which isn\rquote t to say they don\rquote t have value. What good teaching actors like those two do is give us easily crafted memes. It may be true that every philosophical concept worth understanding is at it\rquote s core a joke. Or it may be true that almost everything can be reduced to some sexual metaphor. Or it may be true that things will be repeated as long as they remain true. It may be true that I went to New Zealand recently and drank water from a running stream and visited a farm, and that I forgot to mention the running stream.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 The last idea transmitted through deep time which was accessible to many people which was about Britain, and have been transmitted by through the memes which comprise the english language itself. The last time an idea was so powerful in its new values that it generated a system of belief so strong and powerful it affected people\rquote s outlooks to the point of what they built for centuries, people were and still are building all different sorts temples and cathedrals. Something happened in our culture which created individuals whose more advanced interpretation of what it meant to be a good person, existing happily inside society, not resenting society for being a product of society and attempting to work on society\rquote s flaws by attempting to be a better person successfully generated enough impetus to transmit these values through institutions like churches. Christians begin their calendar with the approximate year this occurred, which was now 2012 years ago. However individuals whose complex interpretation of values leads to their writing documents which actually generate religions were not new even then. The first form of these evolving documents appears as the Chinese example of the Tao Te Ching of Lao Tzu some 3,000 years ago. Anyone who has tried to read a modern english translation of the Tao will know it\rquote s marginal accessibility, especially to children.\par
\par
So, for the sake of the children, every thousand or fewer years new evolutions of this style of document appear. Any sufficiently intelligent book contains subjects which may be marginally accessible to children, so we can afford now to begin a small chapter on health and dentistry. A little dentistry will often go a long way towards enhancing quality of life for many people. The mouth is a multi-functional organ and the teeth are important for chewing food. Good oral health seems to involve keeping the mouth sterile and producing as much saliva as possible. Drinking lots of water helps to keep your mouth moist, but try not to go overboard when you discover this. You can tell someone who has gone overboard with their hydration habit by their constantly carrying bottled water everywhere, and an even more constant habit of sipping bottled water. Children carry their bottled milk everywhere they go as soon as they learn to, and good parents do not discourage this behaviour. When we are very young even walking while carrying something is a difficult to learn, hard to master skill. It is, like many things about people, a learned behaviour. Like sleep. Some people need help to learn to sleep well, and we send parents of young children to medical sleep schools to assist them in helping their child learn to sleep. Typically most wakeful babies can be taught to sleep in a week or so when the parents have qualified help.\par
\par
To avoid sleep, we need artificial light. Artificial light provided by combustion (candles, oil lamps, hurricane lamps, kerosene lanterns etc.) is prettier, but expensive. Electrical light brings the cost of artificial light down significantly and we are all grateful to Thomas Alva Edison for putting us on the right track with his noble-gas filled, tungsten-filiment incandescant bulbs. Even if for nothing but nostalgic purposes we\rquote ll see something recalling their old-style like again someday soon. People enjoy all their technologies and candles will always enjoy a prized place in the pantheon, just as fire does. Now, when electricity was invented there was suddenly an effective way of effortlessly distributing efficiently convertible energy to homes. The energy market is an economy literally created by taking wealth in the form of coal, natural gas, and oil directly from the earth, then liberating its chemical energy into heat through combustion. Ancient Greek legends say fire was brought to people by the titan Prometheus. For this action he was condemned to have his liver eaten every day by vultures, and it was restored every night by the power of Zeus, God of Olympus who judged him to be punished thusly. The human need for justice comes just slightly after the human need for food, and for some just slightly before.\par
\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Chapter 6:\par
Currency, Money, & State\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 Money, the abstraction of wealth it represents, and the amount of energy it can transfer around by moving around in the form of currency are each different things. Where this is most evident is in the activity of ordering food using money. You are engaging in a currency transaction where you the energy represented by the money you wish to exchange will be abstracted during the exchange into food, which you will transfer into your own body to process directly for the chemical energy your money used to represent. In this way money can represent a direct unit of currency transfer. You can use money to transfer energy into yourself, prolonging your life, but it turns out to be hardly worth the effort. It does work somewhat, but even the richest among us do not enjoy that much more life because of their wealth in currency. The inefficiencies are too great. The larger the organism, the greater the inefficiencies it can tolerate, and this is just as true of biological organisms as of economic meta-organisms like churches and states..\par
\par
If you want to hide something so well so as to save it as secret you have to hide it in such a good place that you yourself will forget where the thing is hidden. If you don\rquote t want to part with money, the best thing to do is arrange with yourself to lose it some time before knowing you will have to part with it. It turns out money is not only the root of all evil, its not so important anyway except in our communal kitty.\par
\par
A project to provide all Australians traveling abroad or indeed a small number of offshore Australians with such technology would be so large as to be only able to be undertaken by the Australian government. Of course any Australian traveling with such a device would not be allowed to travel to certain places at all (such as North Korea). Some privileges may be afforded to people willing to indulge in (obviously law-abiding) travel carrying such technology.\par
\par
You can send messages through time, but only to the future and it takes significant effort. Time capsules such as the one in the QVB, Sydney contain messages from decades You need to invent something which persists into \lquote deep\rquote  time during which the deterministic universe grinds onwards considerably while beings with limited free will experience many generations of their objectively experienced time. For humans, these things reach back into a time always referred to as our prehistory. From the time anyone was conscious, and indeed slightly before records of civilisation began we have had snowshoes, stone age hand axes, obsidian blades, cigarettes, fossil records of slow-moving coelacanths, leather-working, cave paintings. These things are prehistoric.\par
\par
There are particular hand tools which have existed in our history since before we began recording our history in any serious way. The stone-age hand axe, made by throwing metal-bearing rocks into an extremely hot fire built from dung. Then when cool chipping away indentations for the fingers and thumb using another rock. This way, from scratch in the wild with enough knowledge of wildlife and geology you can begin to make a tool to work any substance by working harder and harder substances in this way. Also in the archeological record are evidence of other primitive prehistoric tools for instance blades made from volcanic obsidian glass with a leading edge only one or two molecules thick. This is dangerous, and is done by holding a piece of obsidian between your thighs, holding a horn chisel to the outside edge of the obsidian then hitting the chisel with a hammer. In this day and age, such an explanation does no justice. Using superior modern bandwidth you can now watch Mike\rquote s youtube howto covering both obsidian blade making and shaving: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul http\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 ://\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 www\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 .\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 youtube\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 .\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 com\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 /\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 watch\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 ?\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 v\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 =\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 QWSTE\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 6\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 WLB\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 0\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWSTE6WLB0Y"\cf3\ul\v0 Y}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22\par
\par
So these things in our own archeological record show they have occurred since before history, they have been transmitted through time from our prehistoric past. What is the chance can we find further information of an even more ancient time by searching the sky for signals? My guess is that in some manner we\rquote ll only find out in space. Some grand unifying theory, or gut feeling, which can only be found at the end of an overstressed nerve on your toe as long as your big theory of everything?\par
\par
We need better education. Children deserve opportunities to learn from teachers who can show the fundamentals and finesse of many skills, and who enjoys the presence of mind and freedom to know when to engage expert assistance. Better education requires different teaching methods, where children enjoy an education experience personally tailored just for them. Within reasonable limits they must be able to set their own volume and intensity for activities. If their enjoyment seems threatened they need to be able to re-set their participation and choose new activities. Our current paradigm of testing and standardised ranking wastes too much effort on artificial leaderboards which support more about the teachers opinion of groups of students rather than their actual performance. With more massively multiplayer gameified schools performance is directly linked to student participation via their scores.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Realised that if trapped inside a pocket reality I wouldn't want to be unable to realise enough of my personality had been modified so as to leave me unable to realise my entire reality had been condensed down to a small series of rooms. Such crashed spaceship or abandoned snow lodge scenarios really are finite. Its important to be able to discover exactly how long the scenario is provisioned for, and immediately begin consumption of those calculated resources at rapid and increasing rates, attempting exponential growth in rates of consumption of all resources if possible.\par
\par
This is true whether an awareness finds itself in an arena the size of a few small rooms, a nation, a planet, a galaxy, or the size of the universe.\par
\par
This gets progressively difficult.\par
\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs48 Evil, Harm, & Religion\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc\b0\i\fs22 I\rquote d sold many lives\par
and ended still more.\par
But no more.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc To pay for my strife\par
I purchased a life,\par
with conscience laid ruin.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc A high price was paid\par
in confidence trades,\par
which still leaves me sore.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc One licked my own eye,\par
so courageously blind.\par
Like child\rquote s eyes, forgiving.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\i0\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\ldblquote That was an awful noise.\rdblquote  I stated as the smoke rose from my mouth. The dentist seemed completely unconcerned and I wondered if he was affecting the enamel at all, it seemed like nothing was happening, despite the high-rpm drill he wielded with much flourish.\par
\par
Pythagoreanism. A religion which holds as one of its tenets a commandment which states: \ldblquote Beans look like embryos. So you can\rquote t eat them.\rdblquote  How silly, Pythagoras! You were so completely right about the square of the hypothenuse, and completely wrong about beans and they killed you for your crazy beliefs. It would be funny if it weren\rquote t so tragic, but there it is. The line in the sand between genius and madness is simply believing your own hype.\par
\par
A theoretical church of everything is an exercise in generating and recording and ideas worth having through any means. Ideally this is akin to starting a religion because any conversation worth having, something with a similar length in objective time as the history of the snowshoe, has to contain within it a longevity of thought equivalent to the amount of energy required to transmit (which is to say store) a message through deep time. If the energy output of our Sol is 1.7zetawatts, and we have yet to invent new words for units of magnitude dealing with numbers the size as even the number of stars in our galaxy. The amount of wealth such energy represents in terms of matter burned for its near-complete energy output to store the complete consciousness and experience of every living thing in the universe... is prodigious. So we probably won\rquote t be doing it, because there is always a better way to do a thing.\par
\par
\ldblquote Okay, have a really good rinse now, we don\rquote t seem to be able to do much here.\rdblquote  he replaced the drill on the stand and I sat forward in the reclining chair to rinse my mouth with peppermint-flavoured solution designed specifically to alleviate the taste of burning steel and fragments of drill which had broken off on my teeth, leaving the consistent pain in my jaw completely unaffected. My mind wandered as I sat back to listen to more dentistry patter, eventually settling on a firm belief that dentists only ask their patients to do anything when they\rquote ve either made a mistake or can\rquote t help the problem at all. Much like medical interns only ceasing to press the cannula into a patients\rquote  arm when the blood spurts wild and free, leaving even the most unaware intern to realise that perhaps they have missed that crooked little vein entirely by passing directly through it and out the other side.\par
\par
An unhealthy relationship is a terribly painful thing. One partner finds themselves giving affection to the other simply to get affection in return. People typically find themselves caught in unhealthy relationships at particular times of life and it tends to happen during the twenties, especially if you have found it hard to glean anything positive out of relationships in your younger life. As an unhealthy relationship develops, you find your old friends falling away, while family members remark on how you don't seem like yourself. Are you losing yourself to an odd, and ultimately destructive, relationship?\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 If you put your need to grow, mature, and become a healthier person first and foremost, that will create a shift towards healing your relationship. Be aware that doing this work will destabilize the relationship and make things harder before it makes them better. increased drama public attempts at sabotage, which really is a codependent way for the other person in the relationship to embarrass or shame you, or claim you are hurting them by helping yourself. Acting out, blaming you, or be manipulative in order to maintain their power. Refusal to be responsible for your own well-being is common. This is particularly true as you try to pull away and re-define your boundaries as an independant person.\par
\cf5\par
\cf1 Putting an end to a destructive cycle which hurts you is a way to regain your individuality and strength. People who push your buttons, devalue or belittle you, and who are thoughtless about your vulnerabilities are best left behind. Ask yourself if you'd rather continue the unhappy relationship or move on as a whole, and renewed person able to connect with healthier people.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1 your mind is a battleground and you are the one who has to write the story of this battle. If you solve any problem inside your head, no longer it's of importance that if the truth is the way you like it or not.\par
\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Putting on a false front leads to cognitive dissonance. This is basically a feeling of behaving in one way to appease others all while thinking or feeling in another way (your true self). This creates confusion and leads to mounting frustrations that can turn into very unhelpful behaviors including passive-aggression, depression, anger and dependency.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1 you're living by someone else's moral compass rather than by your own. Begin growing your own; plant fertile thoughts so it grows vigorously and accurately reflects your values. And remember, even trying to live by your own values and principles (and often failing) is far better than perfecting life according to someone else's.\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\par
A person who learns from their mistakes the first time every time is perfect. \par
\par
Still trapped inside waking universe. Dreams some welcome respite. Haven't cut my hair in over three months. Recent experience has led to a mild persistent belief I can communicate with animals. Caused fellow shared universe users to entertain my mildly entertaining delusions for some time. Desire stemming from this to write a new form of document.\par
\par
\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Gender, Chemistry & Reproduction\par
\pard\fi-630\li2880\sl276\slmult1\b0\i\fs20\par
It is because I am not like you, that I am who i am.\par
It is in my mouth that the profane becomes poetic\par
It is in my eyes where lanquidity becomes lascivious.\par
I would turn your ice to water in my dance with dragon!\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs22\par
\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Men are more akin to rocks, crystals, and earth. Women are more akin to water, air, and plants. Androgynes are more akin to energy.\par
\par
A self-replicating idea needs to be something which everyone profits from, yet which earns as little money as possible. Something which is so interesting it virtually propagates itself, with very little effort and is easy to understand. It must simultaneously be worth everything and nothing. It must be an idea as good as shaving, an idea so good it has the persistence of technologies like snowshoes, something as inherently fun and easy to understand as finding fossils on the beach with children. Everyone must derive such a small profit from using the idea they barely notice using it until they are deprived of the things which operate on the idea\rquote s principle.\par
\pard\s2\sb360\sa80\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Specification, Design, Semblance\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 A worthy idea for creating a specification for a new system is to write a naive version first before collecting any preconceptions of how to design the system. Then look at similar systems currently in existence and intelligently rewrite the design. This way, any unique ideas arrived at in the conceptual phase of the design process will be included in the draft of the specification, rather than omitted unnecessarily. This approach can be likened to pruning a fruit tree; in order to be healthily balanced the tree must be allowed to grow unhindered before unproductive branches are removed.\par
\par
In the world of mathematics, in any network of individual nodes, co-operation eventually always trumps competition. This gives rise to the concept of co-operative reciprocity trumping competitive reciprocity. In the biological world, this applies from lifeforms as simple as single-celled organisms upwards through the hierarchy of evolution. If a colony of Archean bacteria eat all substances \ul except\ulnone  each other, they will be more successful than a colony of Archean bacteria that eat all substances \ul including\ulnone  each other. In the world of economics, if networks are competitive, then \ldblquote You scratch my back, I kick you in the groin and take your back-scratcher.\rdblquote  applies. If the network is co-operative this becomes \ldblquote You scratch my back, I scratch yours. Then, with our itches resolved, we make three back-scratchers and scratch more itches.\rdblquote  Clearly, co-operative strategies of reciprocity are simply a more successful than competitive ones, especially in the long-term. While there remains a place for competition, it is being forced to the edges of the co-operative networks of society, meaning that border areas of highly co-operative economic development are encroaching slowly, expanding their influence into more competitive lesser developed areas. Conflict still occurs, but has little effect deep inside the co-operative highly-developed economic zones, which are characterised by systems of open, transparent, verifiable, and accountable government.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 In the world of human behaviour, this concept of co-operative reciprocity was enshrined 2,000 years ago with what we know today as the \ldblquote Golden Rule\rdblquote  when someone (who could have been Jesus) said \ldblquote The meek shall inherit the earth.\rdblquote  Although they may not have known it (it is unclear whether it was understood at the level of mathematical proof at the time) due to the correctness of this principle, they were almost entirely correct. The Golden Rule distills this concept to something children can understand, which is the best point in the lives of future adults to start teaching them something so profoundly profitable to society, especially as economic development continues to occur and population pressure keeps building in a seemingly endless feedback loop.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\s1\fi720\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Health, Wellness & Medicine\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Pathways to wellness are manifold. Surgical, pharmacological, therapeutic, and social to name but a few approaches. 2 MIN MAX (require great piece of mind).\par
Of course the majority of patients see most therapeutic or surgical options as being completely unnecessary. This is not without some justification because in many scenarios any given patient can simply see their general practitioner or possibly psychiatrist to obtain the drugs they need, want to sell, or are addicted to. Or all of those, if they\rquote re feeling particularly brave and/or generous at the time of their appointment.\par
Practitioners on the whole seem to love these patients because taking this approach to their health virtually guarantees they will never recover. Granting endless repeated \ldblquote frequent flyer\rdblquote  appointments during which no new diagnoses will be made, and almost no effort beyond writing another prescription need be gone to before the appointment is quickly terminated by mutual agreement to the satisfaction of both parties. This situation is obviously far less than ideal, and despite the obvious benefits to all concerned cannot continue forever.\par
Nor should it be allowed to. Taking a holistic approach to wellness is something which will be difficult for both patient and medical professional, as it involves work for both parties. Work is, at large, something so unpleasant that most people must be economically incentivised in modern western society in order to get any done. However roads are still made, albeit extremely late and well over budget. Constructions are still erected, though they be ill-advised and without proper safety inspections. Apartments are still leased out, even though their occupants are intellectually aware that living in a small concrete box is a terrible idea, and the entire building is fast becoming a slum. Software is still written, though it be without any particular purpose and completely in abeyance of any specification. Websites are still designed, though their intended audience is unclear and their layout unappealing to the point of producing seizure-like conniptions.\par
\b Golden Rule:\b0  \ldblquote Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.\rdblquote\b\par
Extended Golden Rule:\b0  If you\rquote re good to others, they will likely be good to you in return. Conversely, if you are an annoying shithead to others, those same people will likely treat you as one.\b\par
Reverse Golden Rule:\b0  If someone treats you like shit, either they enjoy treating you like shit because they need medical treatment, or more disturbingly, they want for you to treat them as shitty as they treat you.\b\par
Reverse Golden Rule Corollary:\b0  If you don\rquote t want to shit all over people who treat you like shit in return for their initial shitty treatment of you (because you\rquote re not an arsehole), people who treat others like shit can just fuck off.\b\par
Simplified Golden Rule: \b0\ldblquote For God\rquote s sake, just fucking be nice to each other!\b\par
Simplified Extended Golden Rule: \b0\ldblquote If you all insist on continuing to have children, this planet is going to get crowded very quickly. So we\rquote re all going to have to learn to get along eventually. Some bastard is nailing me up to a cross, take this as a good example for how not to behave, and for God\rquote s sake, just fucking be nice to each other!\rdblquote\b\par
\b0\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Questions, Answers, & Achievement\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\ldblquote What are you doing today?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote How do you pronouce edelvisse?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote What are you reading for?\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote Why are you depressed?\rdblquote\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 When I was about ten years old my parents bought a new car. This was the end of the 1980\rquote s. The new car was a Toyota Landcruiser Sahara turbo petrol-engined gas-guzzling monstrosity which had one groundbreaking feature; an in-dash compact disc player. While not particularly remarkable as consumer-level technology of the time, it made the leap to being the first hi-fidelity digital sound reproduction device in the household.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I had a Sony Walkman, with a digital radio. I had wanted a discman for the higher quality of sound but could not find it in my young vocabulary to express how justified the higher price tag was. The digital radio was one of the best features of the Walkman, which is probably still around in a box somewhere, waiting to be used to play legacy media. Because of its far more precise digital tuner, it could pick up ABC Local AM, and Triple J FM stations streets away from other kid\rquote s portable devices, all tuned in with outmoded analog potentiometers. No static in my headphones, people!\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I took my son to his new primary school for an interview with the principal, a kind of welcome lets get to know you new student thing. On the way into the school, he stopped by the Administration building and urinated in a basin outside. I took a moment to contemplate how difficult the experience of going to school such impetuous actions would make. While I explained that this was immature, inappropriate behaviour, he pretended not to understand. I told him the teachers would not be so lenient with him.\par
During the interview the school principal asked "How old are you?"\par
"Four."\par
"What will you be next year?"\par
"I dunno. Five?"\par
"What do you like to do?"\par
"Somersaults!" Obviously. On the way out, walking through the school parking lot he tried to run underneath a car. Only my quick actions both of yelling "Stop!" and pulling his body out of the path of the moving vehicle (driven fast by an oblivious mother with eyes only for her own children in her rear-view mirror; safely ensconced in their five-point harness cocoons) saved further tragedy from marring the day by  pooling blood on the asphalt.\par
\par
That night a dream began where I was visited by the aspect of someone I knew in one of her more powerful forms.  A young faerie, maybe 13 or 14, by the name of Storm. A powerful, intense creature, sexually mature at too young an age, with a will to bend mine to hers in an attempt to bind, or perhaps rebind, some kind of glamour. She crawled upon me, her lithe young body irritatingly pliable, strong, and small on my hardening form. She whispered in my ear, brushing her just full enough to be sensuous lips on my earlobe only two words while lightning crashed across the sky; "Never ending..." Somehow I knew she referred to all of womanhood and herself all at once, a very large slice of time, but in my ears her claim of eternalness rang hollow and seemed plainly illogical.\par
\par
As she formed the word ending she exhaled slowly, washing me with her breath even as water from the roiling clouds above washed the rest of my skin. I couldn't close my eyes, I didn't want this, and became irritable. I shifted from partially reclining position to move her small weight from my body, but she would not be dislodged. As a peal of thunder rolled over us, something inside me snapped. My dreamscape was in turmoil because of her presence and while I would not ask her to leave, I simply wished she could see how badly it was affecting me, but my lips were bound not to speak. I convulsed, then threw myself back onto ground turned suddenly soft with water. Arching my back, I began a laugh which quickly spiralled from any semblance of control to maniacal cackling, a laugh of pain and disappointment, a pure expression of utter madness. \par
\par
A look of displeasure crossed her face and she stretched up on me, showing concern. I kept my eyes closed, although I refused to acknowledge her in any external way I was completely aware. Her expression changed to what may have been disgust, or perhaps fear. If she wished to remain here, it became clear that she would soon be engulfed in a tidal wave of mud. Regarding me as uncontrollable, she quickly arose from my body and left to be around people whose mental states allowed easier enjoyments. Everything has its time, entropy degrades all, and even organisms the size of the universe must eventually grow old. The rain, lightning and thunder ceased with her departure, but my laughter rang around the hills as I wallowed in mud suddenly hot with radioactive energy from the earth. Through convulsions of laughter so violent as to be almost painful I wondered what would become of me.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Change is the only constant, yet people don't willingly change. For example, I'll continue iterating that people don't willingly change.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Dignity, Impudence, & Impunity\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I had another birthday recently, which happens on the first day of spring every year. Another yearly tally on reality's prison wall. Another circumlocution of a yellow sun on the surface of this dirtball spaceship, with only other disgusting humans and animals for company. I mostly celebrate my birthday by enforcing that nobody celebrates my birthday, at least not with me. Sometimes I do this by discreetly booking a room somewhere and turning off all communications devices, other times by ducking under the radar with people who don't know or don't care that its my birthday.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 People sometimes ask me whether I've done the correct thing with my life. I'm not sure if that's even possible. Is it even possible for us to do the morally correct thing in any circumstance at all? Was it the right thing to travel to the moon when people were hungry, diseased and at war with each other? Maybe a more Panglossian outlook is called for, where when whatever we do is the correct thing, this being the best of all possible worlds. Unfortunately this isn't clear cut enough to exclude obviously horribly wrong things which do occur here, like intentional cruelty to animals or people. Or even unintentional actions like environmental pollution. But when pollution turns into ecological disaster, even unintentional stupidity seems an obviously wrong action. The solution seems simple. Stop making bad decisions which lead to taking wrongful action. Sounds easy, right?\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 When the people at the factory choose to dispose of the by-products of their efforts by dumping it into the creek, they don't do it to ruin the lake over the border but because it seems like an easier solution to disposing of those wastes properly. This word, properly, and the concept of properness and propriety it underpins implies a certain structure which a lot of people have agreed upon as the way things will ideally operate. In most industries this is nothing unusual, although as any manager or employee knows, the ideal operation of any company represents an impossible level perfection to strive for. Striving for this sort of perfection is a useless activity, filled with wrongfulness. Yet at the interstice of the design and manufacturing fields is the art of Chindogu itself. Chindogu is the Japanese word for un-useless object.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\fs18\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\fs22 In the 1960\rquote s NASA wrote a report concerning advanced automation for moon factories which would produce helium-3 bearing bodies for air-drop back to earth to supply tokamak fusion reactors for earth\rquote s future energy requirements. Martin Luther King had a dream of civil rights for all, and was considered progressive and shot in the head for having the tenacity of vision to perceive the basic tenet that all good people, regardless of the colour of their skin, deserve the right of freedom and the equality of opportunity to live whatever life they choose without institutionally-sanctioned oppression such as forms segregation. Segregation is an idea which when applied to people on the scale of societies doesn\rquote t work, and the reason it doesn\rquote t work is that it attempts to force inorganic boundaries on the homogenising forces already organically at work throughout the entire population anyway. It causes civil unrest, riots, and a general feeling of discontent among the oppressed. This kind of brutal, simplistic, fundamentally flawed solution to social problems stems from 1950\rquote s scientific thinking which, because of the age which produced the science, was far more inflexible than the sort of thinking we enjoy today.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\tab\par
\tab Today we enjoy the luxury of being able to compute solutions to these problems using real statistics we have collected over the course of increasingly complex censuses we have taken. We also enjoy perfect records, and perfect recall of all those records for the purposes of population studies, so we cannot look down on states like the United States of America and South Africa which chose to impose segregation based upon the best science of the time. They did not have our techniques or powers of analysis, and their intent was to minimise harm, even though it wound up increasing harm to race relations eventually. One can decry what many people feel intrinsically about solutions like segregation and apartheid; which is that they are wrong, and many people such as Nelson Mandela spent many years doing exactly that, and because of the courage of their convictions eventually had the honor of being proven completely correct. Imagine the kudos one could garner by being able to put your name to statements such as \ldblquote I have the personal integrity required to indefinitely uphold my belief that all good people have an inalienable right to freedom and to lead whatever life they wish\rdblquote .\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Each day in every city of the world there are thousands of people milling around seemingly aimlessly. Until you want to attend a public lecture on something esoteric which hundreds of 18-24-year-olds needn't find interesting (seriously kids, go away and have fun until you have something more important to concern yourself with) where everyone finds themselves squashed into a small ballroom serving as an auditorium and I have to listen to panelists timidly raise their voices over the endless drone of digestive exhumations courtesy of the nearest fast-food outlet.\par
This is terrible, but if I had to sum up the experience; "Welcome to the rest of your life!" is what each day in a decent city feels like. Overall, 11/10, totally awesome. Everyone must go.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1 Robert M Pirsig wrote in Lila that you go to New York to find out what you'll be next. Well sure, if for some people what you want to be next is depressed, alienated, and out of sorts. New York state is very different to New York City, and I described it using Google Buzz as \ldblquote a state of mind where the buildings you think are libraries are credit unions, and the buildings you think are abandoned are libraries.\rdblquote\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Traveling around extremely wealthy highly developed economies like the United States of America can have the effect of ratcheting up anxiety. Anyone who has travelled from a nation with a significantly smaller or less developed economy has experienced this ratcheting up and up with no end in sight. People often find ways of coping involving smoking and drinking almost daily to cope with the inevitable mood crash and hypersomnia being so overwhelmed causes. It doesn't work very well, and indulging too much in these stress-relieving activities causes travelers to be tired at stupid times and wired at other odd times, unable to dream or sleep through the night.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I know about designs now because of my learnings. So, I'd submit designs to threadless, but the whole website seems like a shallow, corporatised, web 2.0 over-blogged way of making a previously unknown company rich off the backs of a bunch of clueless wannabe-hipster design suckers. So much so I badly wish it had been my idea.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I've become so disillusioned with being in another country that I've started to act like a bit of an idiot because I know in a few short weeks I will be gone from these people's lives forever. Subsequently a lot of my exchanges go like this:\par
"I've been seeing this guy everywhere since Valentine's day. I saw him at the laundromat, and again at the gym, then _again_ at the cafe I have lunch at before Julia's workshop! Do you think its fate?"\par
\pard\li720\sl276\slmult1 "Well it could be, but he's probably stalking you."\par
"Are you serious?"\par
"Not really, but the odds are on. Unless he's cute, in which case you can hope for fate over stalking."\par
"Do you need more medication?"\par
"Most likely, but your health care system is stuffed. I couldn't even find a student nurse willing to wield a scalpel near my face for less than $300. You can see the scar that came from doing it myself."\par
"Uh..."\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 When you find yourself involved in this sort of conversation do not under any circumstances ask for directions. \par
"The sign will say left, but you want to go right, then walk about three hundred yards up, you can't miss it." People you ask for directions will give you the wrong directions just for kicks. Counter-intuitively, if you're standing around looking at a map with a wistful, homesick expression they'll happily come up to you and point out landmarks to explain how much of an out-of-towner you are because you don't know where the intersection of 3rd and 49th street is. Like a maladjusted attempt to be helpful. For more than the amount of time it takes for a bumbling out-of-towner to walk to said intersection following a maps application. Anywhere you go you can tell the tourists, they are the ones looking at their mobile phones, at signs, or through cameras instead of just enjoying the sights. The locals are the ones who are so bored of the sights they are looking at the tourists.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Or alternatively trying to strike up conversation and falling completely flat: "I spent so much time yesterday being creative I forgot to be productive. So today I'm going to try being inventive! Let me tell you about this crazy dream I had where I had a sudden flash of insight into creating a marketable kit product... why is everyone leaving?"\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I did manage to further a discussion on language after the lecture today with someone who believed that the domestication of animals contributed extensively to the development of language in humans since we "gave over our need for highly a developed sense of smell once dogs were domesticated, and the information processing capacity for an unused olfactory bulb had to be used somewhere, why not in the structures which produce sound?" Compelling argument, articulately presented, and entirely unbelievable. \par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I believe more in the Noam Chomsky theory that the development of language is a near-optimal way of building a bridge between sensory-motor function and cognition. This relies only on the evolutionary development of neural structures which allow for recursion, allowing us to build arbitrarily complex sentences: "I'm going over to that tree, to eat those fruits, if I scream about leopards, please come save me."\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Language, despite its complexity may have only required a single evolutionary advance over the ability to produce sound. Connecting sound and meaning only needs recursion. Recursion is a central and terrific property of all human languages, allowing us to create arbitrarily complex sentences with as much precision as necessary.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
You are descended from all previous children of Homo Erectus who were not intolerable enough to destroy, but sometimes the apple doesn't fall far from the tree.\par
\par
Is it possible that people live up to their names? Do they become a certain sort of person because of the meaning of the word everyone refers to them by? It certainly affects how people perceive you a little, for circumstantial evidence just look at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digg.com/environment/What_happens_when_you_name_your_sons_Winner_and_Loser"}}{\fldrslt{\cf3\ul Loser\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://digg.com/environment/What_happens_when_you_name_your_sons_Winner_and_Loser"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://digg.com/environment/What_happens_when_you_name_your_sons_Winner_and_Loser"\cf3\ul\v0 and\cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://digg.com/environment/What_happens_when_you_name_your_sons_Winner_and_Loser"\cf3\ul\v0  \cf1\ulnone\v HYPERLINK "http://digg.com/environment/What_happens_when_you_name_your_sons_Winner_and_Loser"\cf3\ul\v0 Winner}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22 .\par
\par
What if, in the future, future-you pinpoints the exact moment you are named or choose your name as the moment your life's fortunes take a turn for the worse? Today is the fulcrum of your life, and you're sitting there just reading about it. Future you would act! Send a message back in time to inform you to live every day like its the fulcrum of your life! Now drop that first-world trinket chaining you to virtual reality and LIVE!\par
\par
Alternatively if you've already lost your iPhone on the train, don't worry too much about whatever it is that I'm saying (there's not really any deep thought here).\par
\par
Avoiding living, like bearing witness to a bunch of postdoctoral artists watching Gangster Computer God then debating the merits of Timecube for several hours, can cause despair. A crushing sense of ennui! You feel helpless, like you're not good at anything. You have trouble finishing what you start, and even when you do, you can't stand criticism. Sickly, weakened and depressed, you hate your life, and feel your talents wasting away to nothingness. Perhaps if you had a better job then you would be happy? Or maybe if you did the same job, only in SPACE?\par
\par
Ah, now we're onto something! watching the smoke curl out of your laptop's fan bay like curls of wispy vapor from the tube-dispenser on a zero-g coffee. Now thats the stuff right there!\par
\par
Isn't it great to know that whatever you choose to do with your life there's someone more dedicated, committed, and better at it than you? For every hour you spend playing games, some Korean kid plays five. Even if you're an easygoing, well-rounded individual whose pursuits are more about enjoyment and happiness than competition, there's someone in Norway who's been doing that (better than you, english!), since before you were born. Wait, what am I saying, this isn't great, WTF am I talking about?\par
\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 So you have a great business idea, your product or service fills a need, solves a problem, hits the correct price point. But you want to cash in without doing anything difficult. There are three options: 1. Put it into the public domain, where someone CAN do something with it, but does not afford you the opportunity for victory, 2. Tell nobody, and cling miserly to your idea like a drowning man to a life preserver and when someone independently does the same thing in ten years time you can bemoan it privately, 3. Submit a patent application, which is the same as option two, only you can bemoan publicly, in court at great expense.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 The internet: great connector, greater polariser. Before the internet people with weird interests had more trouble encountering each other and its more likely their fascination with the bizarre or macabre would atrophy with time as they interacted with society at large. With internet access a chorus of encouragement from other similarly-minded lunatics strokes the quirks into full-blown obsessions that take over identities. They have found their place and still, all is shaped by circumstance.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 No company has ever folded expecting customers to put their principles ahead of self-interest. But many employees don't hold themselves to the same standards. Why do people work so hard on projects that are so pointless? People put in a lot of late nights thinking of an invisible clock ticking in their heads because they have no problem taking money for time served, but if all you're doing is procrastinating, eventually (no matter how long you spend working) you'll wind up rushed and frustrated under stress you don't need.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 The bottom line is that you only have so much time, sooner rather than later that time will be worth more to you than someone or some company's money. It'd be nice to be the sort of person who won't compromise idealistic principles for money, but its also nice to be the sort of person who can afford to live in a nice part of town.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1\ldblquote People who ramble on and on in an endless, methodical, informative, crushingly detailed way possibly take themselves too seriously.\rdblquote\par
\ldblquote It\rquote s possible you alone are enthralled by your eloquence.\rdblquote\par
"According to frontier law, eloquence is in the ear of those spoken to."\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I did learn something else; in words such as McWhatever, the 'Mc' part is known as the medial-capital patronymic particle! Valuable grammatical information I may never use because the correction is possibly more annoying than any transgression. Lamenting a dying language, Ogden Nash said it best.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\s1\sb480\sa120\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 American Dreams\par
\pard\li2610\sl276\slmult1\cf6\b0\i\fs20 Coin brassy words at will, debase the coinage;\par
We're in an if-you-cannot-lick-them-join age,\par
A slovinliness priovides it own excuse age,\par
Where usage overnight condones misusage.\par
Farewell, farewell to my beloved language,\par
Once English, now a vile orangutanguage.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\i0\fs22\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 So last night before I went to bed I watched 'Logorama' a short film about a fictional Los Angeles made entirely out of corporate logos. Very interesting and cool!\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I slept fitfully as usual and in the hours before I woke, had a confusing and terrifying dream of driving in inescapable traffic jams. For some reason driving was suddenly replaced by climbing the outside of a modern skyscraper. Much of the infrastructure of the building (data cables, power cables, passive cables, supports, plumbing, etc.) were attached to a sort of mini-scaffolding set on the outside of the building. I was trying to reach a particular floor of the building where there was an entrance in a sort of airlock.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 This was hard going, the climb was fraught with danger from passing helicopters, strong winds, and weirdly enough other climbers, who kept falling to their doom or base-jumping from the structure intentionally. There was an incredible view from the building which appeared to be many hundreds of stories tall, built almost atop the site of the entrance to the Clem Jones 7 tunnel, at the RBWH end. After I had climbed high enough that I had not encountered other active climbers or extreme sportspeople, things started to get weirder as other parts of my brain came awake. I encountered people in various stages of decomposition strung to the outside of the building which was by now scattered with warning symbols, speakers telling me of danger and to go back, which I could not. I climbed higher and higher, eventually losing my handhold on a cable and swinging free by one foot near a point where the towering building split into two, smaller towers.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I feared I would fall, and clutched for a higher handhold, sweating with fear although terribly cold from the chill high winds. Too late I reached for a cable which would support my weight and the handhold I had grasped quickly for tore away and I fell, thinking it was to my death, at this point realising it was all a dream and that I would wake up if I 'died.' Suddenly, the cables which had pulled from the wall sprung to an electric life, as high-tension power cables will, like angry snakes. They plunged into my thigh and I felt an invigoration of energy and intense pain as they contracted and coiled around my leg, holding me aloft away from the building, upside down, with a view of the entire city and the structure down to the street below. Slowly the cables pulled me closer to the building, and other cables snaked out to encircle my limbs and throat, in some places pressing into my clothes and flesh, running along and into my skin. The cold was forgotten in the overwhelming sensation of electricity running in small circuits around my entire nervous system.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Reality began to fade and I thought the dream over, that surely I would awake in bed, safe from what had become a nightmare. Only to find myself standing, in a room inside the building I had been climbing. It was a hotel room, well appointed, with a large bed and two chairs, a small table for taking tea and meals, and a bathroom. Floor-to-ceiling drapes covered one wall and I pulled them open, discovering my body held spread-eagled against plate glass, wrists, ankles and throat wrapped in electrical and data cables of various kinds, connectors plunged into my flesh at points where nerves were most dense. I panicked, and screamed my horror, knowing I was dreaming but unable to wake. I explored the room and turned on the large flat television on the wall opposite the bed. Most channels were quite normal, showing repeats of programs I had seem in the waking world, but one contained footage of the dream world I inhabited and as I watched subtitles scrolled across informing me that I would be studied.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I tried to throw the furniture and then myself against the plate glass, thinking to smash it and fall to my waking 'death' on the street below, but it proved completely impermeable except for one titanic effort where it showed itself to be a deformable 'mirror', when enough force was exerted. I knew myself trapped in a virtual reality, so returned my attentions to the screen thinking the only way out of this situation was to reason with the entity which had me at its mercy. Horror and panic had truly set in by now and I began to wonder if this was truly the waking world, that perhaps I would only survive in this room until my body began to die of dehydration or exposure. with the phone in hand I found myself able to ask questions of the screen, which would display answers in the scrolling subtitles as images of the city below and bodies, including mine, were held captive on its 'skin.' Many questions it would not answer, most that it would were trivial, it would not elaborate on why it was present, whether I was actually dreaming, or how its technology functioned.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Upon the query "Why are you doing this?" the generated reality flickered, wobbled, and dissolved like water into many droplets, each containing complete copies of the generated environment but the larger reflection from all their surfaces showing the city, my city of Brisbane, from high in the air above. Suddenly I was falling away from the droplets, or they were moving away from me, and I was in blackness. I screamed in terror, feeling as though I were falling endlessly in vacuum unable to reach my terminal velocity. I thrashed about trying to see in which direction I was falling, or perhaps traveling, and woke with a start, sitting upright in bed. A glance at my mobile phone showed 8:00am, more than time to get up and begin my day.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 Being so full of the presence of God certainly made me quite insane for quite  lot of the time I recorded myself. I only knew at the time it was extremely important that Jeremy film me and follow my lead in being crazy in order to discover where our ideas and reasoning took us.\par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\pard\fi720\sl276\slmult1 I think that perhaps the more you can remain filled with the presence of God without going crazy, the better you will be able to solve \ldblquote the hard problem of consciousness\rdblquote  which I raved on about for a very long time. My voice is our voice, and my voice is merely that which I hear from you. Let us use our voices together in delight of language. \par
\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 